---
title: What Happened on May 21?
slug: what-happened-on-may-21
kind: article
speaker: Family Radio Web Site
created_at: "2011-06-14 15:58:47 UTC"
excerpt: |
  This short study examines the words, "earthquake" and "rapture" as used 
  in the Bible to shed light on what happened on May 21.  Originally published
  by Family Radio.
tags:
  - May 21
  - October 21
  - earthquake
  - rapture
  - judgment
comments: |
  View original file header with timestamp:
    curl --head http://www.familyradio.com/graphical/literature/whathappened.html
---
What really happened this past May 21st? What really happened is that God accomplished exactly what He wanted to happen. That was to warn the whole world that on May 21 God's salvation program would be finished on that day. For the next five months, except for the elect (the true believers), the whole world is under God's final judgment. To accomplish this goal God withheld from the true believers the way in which two phrases were to be understood. Had He not done so, the world would never have been shaken in fear as it was.

One phrase is "the completion of God's salvation program." The other is "God's final judgment." The completion of God's salvation plan is concentrated in the word "rapture." The phrase "God's final judgment" is concentrated in the word "earthquake."

These two words, "earthquake" and "rapture," have been extremely important in our teaching of Judgment Day--May 21. A critical understanding of these two words is the only change required to know why the unsaved are now living in a world that has not been horribly destroyed, and the elect have not been caught up to be with God.

We always look at the word "earthquake" to mean the earth, or ground, is quaking or shaking violently. However, in the Bible the word "earth" can include people as well as ground.

In Genesis 2:7 we read:

And Jehovah God formed man of the dust of the ground...
{:.verse}

Thus the word "earthquake" can also be understood to teach that mankind shakes.

Therefore we have learned from our experience of last May 21 what actually happened. All of mankind was shaken with fear. Indeed the earth (or mankind) did quake in a way it had never before been shaken. God had come spiritually to bring judgment upon the whole world.

The second word, "rapture," identifies with the idea of the completion of God's salvation program. The catching up of all the elect meant that there was to be no more salvation activity to be done anywhere in the world by God. Each and every true believer had become eternally safe with God in Heaven. No more was there any aspect of God's salvation program that remained to be done.

But the same thing became true this past May 21, even though no one was raptured. No one who had not become saved by that date can ever become saved. God tells us in Revelation 22:10-12:

And he saith unto me, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of this book: For the time is at hand. He that is unjust, let him be unjust still: and he that is filthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is righteous, let him be righteous still. And behold, I come quickly; and my reward is with Me, to give every man according as his work shall be.
{:.verse}

Thus we have learned that except for a somewhat different understanding of the words "earthquake" and "rapture" or "catching up" no other past teachings of Judgment Day or the end of the world have been changed. The time line, the certainty of it, the proofs, and the signs are all precisely the same. No other past teachings have been changed or modified. Indeed, on May 21 Christ did come spiritually to put all of the unsaved throughout the world into judgment. But that universal judgment will not be physically seen until the last day of the five month judgment period, on October 21, 2011.

We have also learned that God is still teaching that God has no pleasure in the death of the wicked and will not punish the wicked beyond what is called for in Deuteronomy 25. That is, there is a distinct limit to God's wrath.

Thus we can be sure that the whole world, with the exception of those who are presently saved (the elect), are under the judgment of God, and will be annihilated together with the whole physical world on October 21, 2011, on the last day of the present five months period. On that day the true believers (the elect) will be raptured. We must remember that only God knows who His elect are that He saved prior to May 21.

You, too, without your knowledge may have become saved before that date. Anyone can continue to beseech God for mercy because salvation and the election program are entirely in God's hands.

Republished from the Family Radio article, [What Happened on May 21?](http://www.familyradio.com/graphical/literature/whathappened.html), June 14, 2011
