---
title: Why October 7, 2015 is the Likely End of the World, Part 2
speaker: Chris McCann
created_at: 2015-03-15 12:25
slug: why-october-7-2015-is-the-likely-end-of-the-world-part-2
series: true
description: 'Passages covered: Revelation 14:8-20, Psalm 39:4-5, Genesis 40:9-13.'
audio:
  mp3_low:
    length: '59:48'
    bitrate: 32 Kbps
    sample_rate: 22050 Hz
    size: 13.7 MB
    size_bytes: 14354764
    url: http://audiocdn.ebiblefellowship.com/studies/topical/why-october-7-2015-is-the-likely-end-of-the-world/2015.03.15_McCann_-_Why_October_7_2015_is_the_Likely_End_of_the_World_Part_2.mp3
---
Good afternoon and welcome to EBible Fellowship's Sunday afternoon Bible study. Today we are continuing to look at the question of why October 7, 2015 will be the likely end of the world. This is study #2. Last time we started with the Bible's teaching that May 21, 2011 was, and is, Judgment Day. It was the beginning of a prolonged period of judgment.

We saw that there were certain Bible proofs as God opened up the Biblical calendar of history to reveal proofs that locked in that particular date. Just to quickly review our last study, the year 2011 was the 13,023<sup>rd</sup> year from creation. It was also to the 23<sup>rd</sup> year from the start of the Great Tribulation, from 1988 to 2011. Also, May 21, 2011 was exactly 7,000 years from the flood and was the equivalent day the flood began, as God brought the flood waters of the "seventeenth day of the second month" of Noah's 600<sup>th</sup> year. And exactly 7,000 years later, on May 21, 2011, God shut the door of heaven and began to pour out His wrath upon the unsaved inhabitants of the earth.

We also looked at the period of time from April 1, 33 AD until May 21, 2011. We saw that it was 722,500 days, which broke down to "5 x 5 x 10 x 10 x 17 x 17," a doubling of each one of the numbers. Each number is very significant. The number "5" points to the atoning work of Christ; the number "10" points to completeness and the number "17" points to the fact that all the elect were saved and "heaven" was secured for them.

We reviewed all this information because it is important to understand that the Bible locked in that date of May 21, 2011 as Judgment Day. Of course, some people that seemed to previously understand that, now no longer do, because when that date came there was no physical manifestation of God's wrath --- there was no great earthquake and nothing visible to the physical eye that would indicate it was Judgment Day. Therefore, they have concluded it was not Judgment Day and, yet, their conclusion is not a result of going back to the Bible to check all the previous information and carefully examining it to see what happened. Basically, they are making a determination that is completely based upon the evidence of their physical eyes: "We saw nothing and, therefore, nothing happened." But that is a big mistake. It is a huge error to employ that kind of reasoning with the Word of God. For instance, people could have said the same thing about the judgment upon the churches. They did see any outward, physical wrath of God on the churches: "Look at our church. We have actually increased membership over the course of the 23-year period that you said there was judgment upon all the churches of the world. We have more members and nice families have entered into our church. The pastor has been preaching great sermons and we are even going to build an addition to the church. Giving is up. What could be wrong? Just take a look around and you will not see the building torn down and you do not see blood flowing or dead bodies lying in the aisles. You do not see any of that in this church or any church in the world."

Are we going to see that kind of destruction with our physical eyes? The churches have been fooled by this; they heard the information that judgment began at the house of God and they heard it was the time of the end of church age and there was spiritual devastation in all the congregations, but they will not accept it because it does not match up with the outward, physical condition of their church. In many cases, their churches could be doing very well, outwardly, and that led to the churches denying, dismissing and ignoring the information from the Bible. They reasoned with their senses and their own understanding, rather than reasoning through the Bible and looking only to God's Word to determine what was the actual condition of the churches. What is the actual spiritual situation in the churches of the world? If they would have stayed in the Bible they would have understood that we are at the time of the end and that judgment would begin at the house of God; He is describing the churches of the world as a wasteland and desolation and they must get out of the churches. They did not do that because they were not looking only to the Bible. Likewise, people have fallen into the same trap and made the same mistake as they reason based on outward evidence, but the Bible is a spiritual Book and God has established a pattern of bringing spiritual judgments in the Bible. Again, the judgment upon Adam and Eve was that they died in their soul existence in that day God judged them and it was a spiritual judgment. The judgment upon Christ in the Garden of Gethsemane was a spiritual judgment; no one could see the wrath of God outwardly upon Him. Also, the judgment on the corporate church was a spiritual judgment.

As God's people returned to the Bible and continued to search and investigate what had happened. Why was there no outward sign like a great earthquake? We found that the Bible teaches a pattern of spiritual judgments and we started thinking about whether it could have been a spiritual judgment: "Let us keep looking in the Bible and see if there is more evidence for this." Then we saw that the Bible did continue to insist that May 21, 2011 was, in fact, the beginning of Judgment Day. It did not "budge" or move. It did not alter or change and we could not move that date to the left or to the right. The Bible continues to target and point to that particular day and this is very helpful to us as we continue to look into what the Bible is teaching in the time period we are presently in. We can start there and that is what we did. We started with the information that May 21, 2011 began the judgment on the world --- it was the final judgment upon mankind and it began on that day. Yes, the Bible does permit and allow for that because the Bible teaches that there is such a thing as "spiritual judgment" and, in fact, the most major judgments in the Bible were spiritual in nature and this follows that pattern and is in keeping with what God had done previously. Therefore, we need to look to the Bible and ask the question: "How long will Judgment Day last?"

First of all, is the idea of a prolonged period of judgment Biblical? You see, we did not just jump into these things without asking these questions and checking the Bible for answers. Then we were assured that we could continue (along those lines) because the Bible does teach spiritual judgment. And, yes, we could continue because the Bible can describe a prolonged period of time as a single day. For instance, it says in Hebrews 3:7-8:

> Wherefore (as the Holy Ghost saith, To day if ye will hear his voice, Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness:
{:.verse}

Now notice that it refers to it as the "day" of temptation in the wilderness, not "days" (plural). Then it goes on to say in Hebrews 3:9:

> When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years.
{:.verse}

Here, God is speaking of Israel's sojourn in the wilderness after coming out of Egypt; they wandered for "forty years," because their spies had searched out the land for forty days and they returned with an "evil report," with the exception of Joshua and Caleb. They were fearful and discouraged the people from going in and taking the land. As a result of their evil report, God caused them to wander in the wilderness a year for each day they had searched the land. That was a judgment of God, so we see the number "40" relates to judgment as well as to "testing." The judgment of God was that they would wander forty years in the wilderness and during that forty year period God caused all that generation to die out, as a result, which proves that period was also a period of judgment. God had sworn in His wrath that none of them would enter into the Promised Land and their carcases did fall in the wilderness. God calls it a "day" of temptation, but at the same time, we know it continued for forty years. Likewise, the Bible is very clear that there is a judgment "day," or it refers to the "day" of the Lord's wrath, so it has gotten into the mindset of people that Judgment Day is just a single day. They think Christ will come and that will end the world on that very day and that is it. This is one of the reasons why they misunderstood May 21, 2011, even prior to May 21, 2011. God's people were not saying that this day would end the world, but we had understood judgment would begin on that day and God would stop saving people on that day. Then we taught that there would be "five months" of torment, so even then we taught that it would be a prolonged Judgment Day. Mr. Camping taught this and Family Radio taught this. We thought the entire "five months" was all Judgment Day. Again, it was Scriptures like those in Hebrews 3 that permitted that understanding, when God identified the forty year sojourn in the wilderness as a "day" of temptation. It is God's good privilege to do things like this if He desires to do so --- it is His Word. So we were thinking that Judgment Day would be "five months" in duration, but we were wrong. We were incorrect about October 21, 2011, and it was not the conclusion of the prolonged period of Judgment Day. We were wrong about the date because we took the reference to the "five months" of Revelation 9 literally, rather than understanding it in a figurative sense, like we did all the other numbers in the Book of Revelation. Yet, we were not wrong in the idea that Judgment Day would be a prolonged period of time. Really, one of the big questions and the last question we had concerning God's wrath in Judgment Day was this: "How long would Judgment Day last?" How long would this spiritual judgment that began on the date of May 21, 2011 (when God shut the door of heaven and put out the light of the Gospel) last and when would it conclude? So we looked in the Bible with that thought in mind and we came to Revelation, chapter 14. In this chapter, God is describing Judgment Day --- there is no doubt about that. It says in Revelation 14:8:

> And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
{:.verse}

In declaring, "*Babylon is fallen, is fallen*," God is letting us know that it is Judgment Day, the time immediately after the Tribulation. How do we know that? In the Old Testament God gave a type and figure of the Great Tribulation and the type and figure was the Babylonian army under King Nebuchadnezzar overcoming Judah and destroying the temple and taking the people into captivity. King Nebuchadnezzar is a type of Satan and the Babylonian army is a type of the kingdom of Satan and Judah is a picture of the churches. Therefore, it was an historical parable to portray God's judgment on the churches and congregations that would take place at the time of the end during the Great Tribulation period. God let it be known that His judgment upon Judah began in 609 BC when good King Josiah was slain in battle with the Egyptians and this ended the period of prosperity and blessing for Judah. A series of wicked and evil kings began to reign over Judah and God's judgment was against them, beginning in 609 BC, and it would continue for a long stretch of time until, finally, King Darius and the Medes and Persians would take the kingdom of Babylon. The Bible indicates that this date was 539 BC and God gives us the time span of seventy years in which the people of Judah were under the wrath of God, which spiritually pointed to the judgment which would come upon the corporate church, the people of God in the New Testament. That judgment pictured the Great Tribulation period. So the fall of Babylon took place, historically, at the end of the seventy year period and that would represent the end of the Great Tribulation, the end of the period of God's judgment on the churches.

Whenever we see the phrase, "*Babylon is fallen, is fallen*," we can know that God is pinpointing that it is the end of the Great Tribulation and the beginning of Judgment Day. This is synonymous to the statement we find in Matthew 24:29, "*Immediately after the tribulation of those days*," when the Lord goes on to say that the sun is darkened and the moon will not give her light, and so forth. When it says, "*Babylon is fallen, is fallen*," it means the Great Tribulation period is over and it is the time of the judgment on the world and that is exactly what we find in the verses that follow in Revelation, chapter 14.

But before we look further into Revelation 14, what else do we know? Because God has opened up our understanding to reveal His Biblical calendar and the timeline of history and His program of "times and seasons," we know when the church age ended on May 21, 1988; we know the duration for the judgment on the churches was 23 full years until May 21, 2011. That 70-year period of Judah being under the wrath of God at the hand of the Babylonians typified the actual 23 years from May 21, 1988 to May 21, 2011. Therefore, Babylon's fall and the end of the Great Tribulation identify with May 21, 2011. Additionally, the Bible confirms and continues to insist that this date was Judgment Day, so as we read further in Revelation 14, we have that information from the Bible in mind: when it says, "*Babylon is fallen, is fallen*," it means it is speaking of the date of May 21, 2011 that God had proclaimed to the world. Then it goes on to say in Revelation 14:10-11:

> The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb: And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever: and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.
{:.verse}

We are very much on target because this is language of Judgment Day. There is no mistaking it, so we have understood the phrase, "Babylon is fallen, is fallen," correctly and this is language that follows concerning Judgment Day. God goes on to say in Revelation 14:12:

> Here is the patience of the saints: here *are* they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.
{:.verse}

This seems to be an incredibly mysterious verse until we understand that God planned to leave His people on the earth to go through the Judgment Day period. This is why as He is describing the cup of His wrath being poured out and the torment of the wicked ascending up for a period of days and nights, He says, "*Here is the patience of the saints*." Well, we do not want to go off in that direction at this point, but this verse (and many others) indicates that God's people are living on the earth in the Day of Judgment. But, in the context of Judgment Day, it continues in Revelation 14:14-20:

> And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud *one* sat like unto the Son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle. And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and reap: for the time is come for thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth is ripe. And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth; and the earth was reaped. And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle. And another angel came out from the altar, which had power over fire; and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle, saying, Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe. And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and cast *it* into the great winepress of the wrath of God. And the winepress was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the winepress, even unto the horse bridles, by the space of a thousand *and* six hundred furlongs.
{:.verse}

In this passage, from verses 14 through 20, God is speaking of the end of the world and Judgment Day in the manner of a "harvest." Of course, this is fitting because in Jesus' parable about the harvest, it says in Matthew, chapter 13:39:

> The enemy that sowed them is the devil; the harvest is the end of the world; and the reapers are the angels.
{:.verse}

So we are not surprised at all that the Lord describes Judgment Day in terms of a harvest and He is "sending in the sickle," because the word "thrust" is better translated as "send." It identifies with Christ sending His messengers and just as Christ sent the Gospel into the world through His messengers, the body of believers, He is also "sending in the sickle" through His people and they will carry the Word of God into the world, publishing the judgment of God. This will serve in the reaping process. But, again, we are not going to go through all the interesting information God is teaching us in Revelation 14, because the whole premise for this study is the question, "Why is October 7, 2015 the likely end of the world?" So, as we have been looking into the Bible with this question in mind, we want to know how long Judgment Day will continue. How long will it go on? We know from the Bible that it began on May 21, 2011. This chapter of Revelation 14 does speak of that day because it is speaking of Judgment Day and that is when Judgment Day began, so we have the starting date already in place, but what will be the concluding date? When will it end?

We find the interesting statement, in verse 20, concerning the winepress that Christ is treading without the city and it says, "*and blood came out of the winepress, even unto the horse bridles, by the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs*." That is "1,600" furlongs. First of all, we wonder why God would bother telling us that. What does it mean? What is the significance? Christ is treading the winepress and we know that is an illustration the Bible gives of the wrath of God. The unsaved are under the feet of the Almighty and He is crushing the "life blood" out of them, as the Bible says, "*The life is in the blood*."

If their blood is flowing out of the winepress for the space of "1,600 furlongs," we wonder if it is possible that God is indicating that the life of the wicked will go on for a period of time of 1,600 days. Is that possible? Can we understand "furlongs" to represent "days"? So we take that question to the Bible, like we took all the other questions and we search the Bible to see if we can make that kind of spiritual substitution. When God is speaking of a "space" of furlongs, can we understand it as "days"? There are actually several verses that provide Biblical justification for making that kind of substitution. For instance, it says in Psalm 39:4-5:

> JEHOVAH, make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days, what it *is; that* I may know how frail I *am*. Behold, thou hast made my days *as* an handbreadth; and mine age *is* as nothing before thee: verily every man at his best state *is* altogether vanity. Selah.
{:.verse}

Here, God is moving David to request that he might be made "*to know mine end, and the measure of my days*," and then the days are tied to a "handbreadth," which is a measurement, so God is relating time (days) to measurement. We could go on in that area, but we are not going to at this time; there are other Scriptures that follow along the same idea. You know, this is the Bible and Christ spoke in parables and without a parable He did not speak, so it would be consistent for God to give what ought to be understood spiritually as a time duration in the form of another measurement. According to Psalm 39, that is Biblical, so "by the space of 1,600 furlongs" very well could be the days that lead to the end, as King David requested: "*Make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days*." It very well could tie into that or, at least, it allows for that kind of understanding.

Now in Genesis, chapter 40, Joseph is in prison with the butler and the baker, as well as others, but the butler and the baker each have a dream and Joseph has a gift from God to interpret dreams. So Joseph asks them to tell him their dreams. It says in Genesis 40:9-11:

> And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said to him, In my dream, behold, a vine *was* before me; And in the vine *were* three branches: and it *was* as though it budded, *and* her blossoms shot forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes: And Pharaoh's cup *was* in my hand: and I took the grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand.
{:.verse}

This is not speaking of a winepress, but this is exactly what a winepress does --- it crushes grapes. So it is basically a vivid dream that is picturing a form of a winepress. Then it goes on to say in Genesis 40:12-13:

> And Joseph said unto him, This *is* the interpretation of it: The three branches *are* three days: Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thy place: and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand, after the former manner when thou wast his butler.
{:.verse}

Notice Joseph hears the butler's dream, which is of three branches and the crushing of the grapes into Pharaoh's cup and Joseph interprets the dream. Remember what Joseph later said to Pharaoh: "*Do not interpretations belong to God?*" So this interpretation is from God and the interpretation of the three branches is that they represent "three days." How do "three branches" represent "three days"? How is that connection made? Branches have nothing to do with time, so three branches ought not to have anything to do with time. Yet, this is the Bible and this is how God wrote the Bible. Christ is called the "vine" in the New Testament, but is He a vine? He is called the "Lamb of God," but is He a lamb? No, He is not a lamb. We could go on for quite a while listing things that God uses to assign meanings to other things --- those are "types and figures." He uses people to represent other people, like David was a "type" of Christ and King Nebuchadnezzar was a "type" of Satan. Was he Satan? No, he was just a man. But that is how God wrote the Bible and things, people or places can represent other things. For example, Judah can represent the churches and Egypt can typify the churches or the world, and so on, and God's people have become quite familiar with the manner in which God wrote the Bible.

It is baffling, therefore, when people say, "You cannot understand furlongs as days." I wonder, "Are they reading the same Bible as I am reading? Do they not understand that this is fully in keeping with how God has written the Bible?" As a matter of fact, if God had said "1,600 days," rather than "1,600 furlongs," it would be a time reference in the Book of Revelation, but every other time reference in the Book are figurative and not literal. The "three and one half days" are not literal. The "thousand years" that Satan was bound, in Revelation 20, is not literal. The "1,260 days" that the woman fled into the wilderness are not literal. The "five months" of Revelation 9 are not literal and that was our mistake --- we took a figurative number from the Book of Revelation and we tried to make it literal.

If God did say plainly that the blood would flow for "1,600 days" and the unsaved people would be under His wrath and having their lives crushed under His feet, we would have to think that this could not be literal, but it must represent some other period of time, based on the figurative nature of the other time references. Remember the "three and one half days" that the two witnesses were laying dead in the streets we understand to represent the actual "2,300 days" of the first part of the Great Tribulation period. So time references have relationship to actual time periods, but they themselves are not the actual time. Therefore, how can God give us an actual time duration in the Book of Revelation? If He gave us an actual time and He told us what appeared to be an exact time, we are going to think, "That cannot be actual; it is figurative." Therefore, what is the solution? It is as if Christ is saying, "I will speak in a parable. I will tell them the time duration for Judgment Day," because this chapter is dealing with Judgment Day, which began on May 21, 2011. Therefore, it will very likely be completed "1,600 days" later.

So we take the "number" from the Bible in Revelation 14 and that number is in the context of Judgment Day. And a mistake that so many people are making is that they are throwing together all kinds of numbers; they are just reaching into the Bible and wherever they see a number, they are attaching it to May 21, 2011 --- they have the last part correct and there is to be a prolonged period of judgment from May 21, 2011, and the question is how long. So, yes, we go to the Bible to find the solution, but we do not just grab any number out of the Bible and attach it and then attach extensions to that and extension, after extension. That is just confusion and completely erroneous doctrine and time paths are doctrines like anything else. God has to identify the context as Judgment Day and this is the mistake that some people make as they take a number like "1,260" days from Revelation, chapter 12, (or other places) and they just throw it into the mix, but Revelation 12 is not speaking of Judgment Day. The "1,260 days" identify with the church age and it has nothing to do with the time after the Tribulation known as Judgment Day, so there is not even the slightest possibility that this would take place. We are governed by the Bible and the Bible must establish the context where the number is found. In the Book of Revelation, there is only one number that can be put into the proper place in the context of Judgment Day, beginning on May 21, 2011, and that is this number of "1,600" days.

The next task we do to discover if this is correct and if we are on the right track is to see if our number "1,600" fits? Is there harmony? Does it fit into the Biblical calendar of history? Does it match in any way with other information we know from the Bible? The answer is, "Yes, very definitely. This number fits." First of all, we have already learned that the Great Tribulation was 23 exact years, from May 21, 1988 to May 21, 2011, and that time period was also 8,400 days. Here God gives the number "1,600," so we did not just come up with it and it is in the context of Judgment Day. We take that number that God has given us and we look at the 8,400 days, which was the period of judgment on the house of God. And how does God describe that period of judgment? It is described as judgment beginning at the house of God and the wording implies there will be a completion. It is the first stage of judgment and there must be a completion to it and that was exactly what we were looking for and the day of transition was May 21, 2011 when God would transition the judgment that had been exclusively on the churches (for 8,400 days) to now include all the unsaved inhabitants of the earth.

It was a day of transition and we were looking for a completion of the judgment process which had begun on the churches. Therefore, what "number" does the Bible give which points to completion? Numbers in the Bible have spiritual meaning. The number "three" points to the purpose of God; the number "four" points to universality or the furthest extent of whatever is in view; the number "40" points to testing and judgment; the number "23" identifies with the Great Tribulation and God's judgment, and so forth. Numbers have meaning and the number that identifies with "completeness" is the number "10." For instance, let us go to Luke 15:3:

> And he spake this parable unto them, saying, What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it?
{:.verse}

And when he finds it, how many does he have again? He has 100 sheep and now he has all the sheep, does he not? He has the complete number of his sheep. In the same chapter, Christ gives another parable in Luke 15:8-9:

> Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find *it*? And when she hath found *it*, she calleth *her* friends and *her* neighbours together, saying, Rejoice with me; for I have found the piece which I had lost.
{:.verse}

She had ten and she lost one. Again, she did a diligent search, just as the man with his sheep. Then she finds it and rejoices because she has ten again. She has all her money, the complete amount of her money and it is safe and secure. This points to God's elect. God actually uses the number "10" in the Bible or the number "100," to represent completeness and multiples of the number "10" does not change the meaning. So the number "10" or "100" or "1,000" does not change the meaning. Satan was bound for a figurative "thousand years." It is multiples of "10." Christ comes with "ten thousands of his saints," and, again, it is multiples of "10," and it points to the completeness of whatever is in view --- it is very consistent. In Psalm 50, verse 10, it says that God owns "*the cattle upon a thousand hills*," and it can readily be seen that it will not work to limit it to a "thousand" hills. Does God only own the cattle upon a thousand hills? No, of course not, because He is God and He owns all the cattle upon all the hills --- it is the completion of ownership of the cattle and the hills. It is like the man that had 100 sheep and they were all his. It is like the woman that had 10 coins. It is the completion of whatever is in view and we have been searching in the Bible for how long Judgment Day will last. We know it began on that date of May 21, 2011, but how long is it? What is really the question for which we want an answer? It is to know how long it will be before God completes His judgment upon the world. When will God be finished pouring out His wrath and the complete sum of His fury has been dispensed upon the unsaved people of the world? "How long, O Lord?" the saints under the altar cried in Revelation, chapter 6. This is what the people of God have been looking to know since May 21, 2011: "How long, O Lord, before you complete the Day of Judgment?"

The answer lies in the number "1,600," because if you take "8,400 days," the period of judgment that began on the churches and you take "1,600 days," the number God gives us in the context of Judgment Day, what do you get? If we add "8,400" and "1,600," it equals "10,000" days. Just think about that number. It is multiples of "10," and this is "10 to the 4<sup>th</sup> power," or "10 x 10 x 10 x 10," and it equals 10,000 days of judgment. Is that not amazing? Judgment Day began on May 21, 2011, and that was a long time ago, from our perspective, especially with all the changes that have taken place in the world. The Great Tribulation was a trying time; it was a severe time of testing in its own right. Of course, the doctrine of the end of the church age was traumatic for many people. It has been a long and slow journey, from our perspective, from the beginning of Judgment Day and over the course of those 23 years (8,400 days) of the Great Tribulation.

Afterwards, as the Bible says in Mark 13:24, "*In those days, after that tribulation*," we have continued to move along in God's judgment program, day after day, and we want to know how long before this is complete. Is the answer not obvious? This is one of the reasons that we say there is a strong likelihood that our journey and our onward march throughout this period of judgment --- the Great Tribulation and the judgment on the churches and now the judgment on the world --- will continue for a total of 10,000 days and then the journey will be complete. It is a very logical Biblical thought that the journey would be completed on the 10,000<sup>th</sup> day, which would be October 7, 2015. We are just a couple hundred days away from that date that we would expect when we look at the Bible's use of the number "10" or any of its multiples, that the number "10,000" would be an excellent day for God to complete the pouring out of His wrath. Again, we have the fact that the Bible has locked in on May 21, 2011 and we have the context of Judgment Day in this chapter and, therefore, our beginning point is May 21, 2011. Then we have God giving us a number that can be rightly understood as "days," the "1,600 furlongs," and we search in the Bible to see if it will fit. And not only does it fit, but it fits about as well as any number could fit. Just think of it. Could you think of a better number? Is there a number that would be more suitable or more exact than "10,000" days for the Day of Judgment?

Is that not the perfect and exact number that we would expect would complete the wrath of God? Think of all the possibilities for other numbers that it could have worked out to be. We are not pulling numbers out of a hat. God locked in May 21, 2011 and that is our starting point. For this to be foolish, ridiculous or way off base, all it would have to do is not be an even sum total of 10,000. What if it were "1,650" days? Then it would mean nothing. What if it were "1,500" days? Again, it would not mean anything. Any other number except "1,600" would not fit perfectly with the "8,400 days" to form "10,000 days."

Lord willing, in our next study, we are going to see how this number (and only this number) ties in with other Biblical information that points to the end of the world. It points to completion of "harvest" and "Tabernacles" and so forth. This is really an amazing number and it is incredible that some people are so dismissive of it when they have not bothered to look into the Bible and see how this one number of "1,600" relates and fits so well in God's Biblical calendar.

