---
title: Why October 7, 2015 is the Likely End of the World, Part 4
speaker: Chris McCann
created_at: 2015-03-29 12:25
slug: why-october-7-2015-is-the-likely-end-of-the-world-part-4
series: true
description: 'Passages covered: Revelation 14:8,14-20, Matthew 13:30,39, Joel 3:12-15,
  Matthew 24:29, James 5:7, Mark 4:28,29, Jeremiah 25:11-12, Isaiah 21:9-10, Jeremiah
  50:15-16,Jeremiah 51:2,8,33, Ecclesiastes 3:1-2, Galatians 6:9-10, Leviticus 23:39-42,
  Exodus 23:16.'
audio:
  mp3_low:
    length: '56:22'
    bitrate: 32 Kbps
    sample_rate: 22050 Hz
    size: 12.9 MB
    size_bytes: 13532108
    url: http://audiocdn.ebiblefellowship.com/studies/why-october-7-2015-is-the-likely-end-of-the-world/2015.03.29_McCann_-_Why_October_7_2015_is_the_Likely_End_of_the_World_Part_4.mp3
---
Hello and welcome to EBible Fellowship's Sunday afternoon Bible study. Today we are continuing to look at, "Why October 7, 2015 is the Likely End of the World," and this is study #4 in this series.

So far, we have seen how God locked in the date of May 21, 2011 as the beginning of Judgment Day. We have also seen how perfectly "10,000 days" of overall judgment fits the idea of God completing His judgment program and we have discussed the tremendous significance of the "1,600 days" breaking down to 40 x 40.

We saw in our last study how God uses the number "40" to describe a period of judgment and a period of severe "testing." God spoke of the 40-year wilderness sojourn as a "day of temptation in the wilderness," and how He swore in His wrath that none of the people that murmured against Him in giving an "evil report" or the people that believed the "evil report" would ever enter into His rest. So He caused them to wander in the wilderness for 40 years until the entire generation died out and that was a demonstration of God's wrath or "judgment" upon them, as well as an extremely trying time of "testing" for Israel.

We were looking at the number "40" and another point about that is in regard to the "10,000 days," the number "10,000" breaks down to "250 x 40." It would be further broken down to "5 x 5 x 10 x 40" and this would also equal "10,000." What is the significance of that? The number "5" is the number of the "atonement," which identifies with both grace and judgment; God applies the atoning work of Christ to those He saves and He applies judgment to those He did not save. Therefore, the "5 x 5 x 10" emphasizes that God applies the completeness of the atonement to all those He intends to save. Likewise, He will bypass those He does not intend to save. In other words, God will complete His grace and His judgment at "10,000 days." Included in that number is the number "40," and this tells us something else about the entire judgment period. Judgment began at the house of God in 1988 for 23 years (8,400 days) and then transitioned to judgment on the world for a likely period of 1,600 days. The 1,600 days expires on October 7, 2015 and that will be the "10,000<sup>th</sup> day." It tells us that throughout this complete period of time, God has been "testing." So it is very significant that the number "1,600" can also be broken down to "5 x 5 x 10 x 40."

Today we are going to look at the significance of October 7, 2015. Why is that particular day so significant? We know it is the 10,000<sup>th</sup> day since judgment began at the house of God on May 21, 1988. We also know it is the 1,600<sup>th</sup> day since May 21, 2011. Both of these dates are very significant and interesting, but is there another reason why October 7, 2015 is the likely end of the world? The answer is, "Yes." There are some very excellent additional reasons why October 7, 2015 will very likely be the end of the world.

First, let us turn to Revelation, chapter 14. We are going to read a verse early in the chapter and then we are going to read a later passage. It says in Revelation 14:8:

> And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
{:.verse}

God says, "*Babylon is fallen, is fallen*," and in the verses that follow He will speak of the cup of the wrath of God that He gives to the unsaved people of the earth. Then we read of the language of "harvest" starting in Revelation 14:14. Please pay attention to the strong emphasis God places on "harvest" in the context of the end of the world and Judgment Day. He says in Revelation 14:14-20:

> And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud *one* sat like unto the Son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle. And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and reap: for the time is come for thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth is ripe. And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth; and the earth was reaped. And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle. And another angel came out from the altar, which had power over fire; and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle, saying, Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe. And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and cast *it* into the great winepress of the wrath of God. And the winepress was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the winepress, even unto the horse bridles, by the space of a thousand *and* six hundred furlongs.
{:.verse}

Here is where we get the "1,600 furlongs," which we have learned can represent "1,600 days." In these verses God is using the language of "harvest." He mentions, "sickle" and he mentions "thrusting in the sickle," and He uses the word "harvest" and "reaped," and so forth. The terms are completely involved with harvest, so how does that relate to October 7, 2015?

First of all, let us look in the Bible to see what God identifies "harvest" with and we will find a very defining statement in Matthew, chapter 13.

By the way, God often does this kind of thing. He may speak of a subject in numerous places, but in one verse He will give a Biblical definition that helps us, as opposed to all the other Scriptures where He did not give us a definition. God expects us to search the entire Bible, comparing Scripture with Scripture and looking up that particular word, carefully reading each passage. Then He may give the definition in one place, but not in the passage at which we were looking, but He gives us a Scripture will help us define the word. This is why we say the Bible defines its own terms.

In Matthew 13, there is the parable of the wheat and the tares. God says in Matthew 13:30:

> Let both grow together until the harvest: and in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them: but gather the wheat into my barn.
{:.verse}

So we see some of the same language of harvest and reapers, just as in Revelation 14, where it said the time of the harvest is come. Christ "thrust in the sickle" to reap. The "reapers" in Matthew 13 are said to be the "angels" or "messengers" and these are the elect, but we are not going to get into that in this study, but we can prove that from the Bible.

By the way, when God says, "*Thrust in thy sickle*," the word "thrust" is the word "send" and it is a word that identifies with "sending" His messengers, so Christ is sending in His reapers to reap His harvest. It is just as Boaz would have laborers to reap the harvest. Boaz, a type of Christ, was a great man. He did not go into the field himself because he had reapers to do that and, likewise, Christ is using His people as the reapers at this time.

Anyway, that is not our focus today, but in Matthew 13, Christ explains the parable in Matthew 13:39:

> The enemy that sowed them is the devil; the harvest is the end of the world; and the reapers are the angels.
{:.verse}

Here is the definition of harvest: "*the harvest is the end of the world*." Does that agree with what we are reading in Revelation 14? Yes, it definitely does. The cup of the wrath of God is being poured out and it is time to "reap the harvest" at the end of the world, so Matthew 13:39 is a big help to us whenever we look at language related to the harvest. By the way, the word "world" is the word "eon" or "age," but when we get to the "end of the age," it is the end of the world and God speaks of harvest time in association with the end of the world.

In the Old Testament Book of Joel, we find similar language in chapter 3 to what we are reading in Revelation, chapter 14. Let us look at Joel 3:12:

> Let the heathen be wakened, and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat: for there will I sit to judge all the heathen round about.
{:.verse}

The word "heathen" is a word that means "nations." Then it says in Joel 3:13:

> Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe...
{:.verse}

Where did we see this familiar language? In our verse it said in Revelation 14: "*Thrust in thy sickle... for the harvest of the earth is ripe*." It is very similar language and it goes on to say in Joel 3:13:

> Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe: come, get you down; for the press is full, the fats overflow; for their wickedness *is* great.
{:.verse}

What does this language sound like? It sounds like the winepress of the wrath of God that is overflowing with blood in Revelation 14. The same thing is said here: "*for the press is full, the fats overflow*."

Then it says in Joel 3:14:

> Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day of JEHOVAH *is* near in the valley of decision.
{:.verse}

If we were to search out the phrase "the day of JEHOVAH," it would lead us, again, and again, to Judgment Day. Here in Joel 3, God is tying "harvest" in with Judgment Day, just as Revelation 14 ties "harvest" with Judgment Day.

Let us look at Joel 3:15:

> The sun and the moon shall be darkened, and the stars shall withdraw their shining.
{:.verse}

Here, God greatly helps us because whenever He mentions the sun being darkened, the moon being darkened or the stars withdrawing their shining, what does that tell us? Again, when we compare Scripture with Scripture, we are directed to Matthew 24 and this language locks in exactly when in God's timetable this event is taking place. It says in Matthew 24:29, "*and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken*." It is "*immediately after the tribulation*," and, therefore, the language of "harvest" or the "end" is found in Joel, chapter 3, along with a description of a darkened sun, moon and stars, we can know that the "harvest" or "end" occurs immediately after the Great Tribulation.

By God's graciousness in opening the Biblical timeline of history, we can also know the Great Tribulation lasted for 23 years, from May 21, 1988 through May 21, 2011. May 21, 2011 was the exact 23<sup>rd</sup> year and the exact 8,400<sup>th</sup> day and the day when God ended the Great Tribulation and, therefore, it was "immediately" after that the sun was darkened, the moon did not give her light and the stars withdrew their shining, spiritually. All of this language relates to the end of God's Gospel program; the light of the Gospel went out.

Of course, discovering that Judgment Day or the "harvest" occurred immediately after the Tribulation does make a lot of sense. It makes good sense because God finished pouring out the Latter Rain during the second part of the Great Tribulation and He finished gathering in the "precious fruit of the earth," His elect, during that last 6,100 days of the Great Tribulation when the pure Gospel was going forth into the nations of the world outside of the churches. After sending the Latter Rain and saving all those that were to be saved (the fruit), then God brought about the "harvest," the end of the world. He begins to reap.

In James 5, God gives us a single verse with tremendous amounts of information concerning His overall Gospel program of salvation. We read in James 5:7:

> Be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it, until he receive the early and latter rain.
{:.verse}

God was longsuffering and patient as He waited for the elect to become saved and to be brought into the fold. He is waiting in the sense that He will not bring His wrath until He receives these two periods of rain: 1) the early rain identifies with the church age and its firstfruits; and 2) the Latter Rain identifies with the great multitude saved during the second part of the Great Tribulation. When the Latter Rain is complete and all of the fruit has been gathered in, then God brings His wrath; He will no longer patiently wait and put up with the sins of mankind. Judgment Day begins and we can see how that would come at the end of the rain at the end of the sowing season. When God has completed His salvation program and saved the last of His elect, He says in Mark 4:28-29:

> For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself; first the blade, then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear. But when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he putteth in the sickle, because the harvest is come.
{:.verse}

Note that He "immediately" put in the sickle because the harvest has come. That is why God "darkened the sun," immediately after that Tribulation. The rain has ended and the gathering of the fruit (salvation) has concluded. And God does not waste time, so "immediately" He puts in the sickle "because the harvest is come."

What does the Bible tell us about harvest? What is that defining verse? "*The harvest is the end of the world*." That is exactly what God did on May 21, 2011, the day that the Bible locked in as the end of the Great Tribulation and the beginning of Judgment Day. We could also call May 21, 2011 the beginning of "harvest" or the beginning of the period to "reap." It is the time that Revelation, chapter 14 is describing when it says, "*Babylon is fallen, is fallen*," and then it goes on to speak of the "harvest."

By the way, let us read about this phrase, "*Babylon is fallen is fallen*" again. That phrase is not here by accident and it is a phrase that is well thought out by God. Of course, there is not a word that is not "well thought out" by God, as He is infinitely brilliant and wise and every "jot and tittle" in the Bible is "well thought out." It is incredible how God has written the Bible over the course of hundreds of years as He moved various men to write the things He wanted to have recorded and, yet, it is all cohesive and fits so perfectly together. It is so harmonious and it is really an incredible testimony to the nature of the Author. Because the Bible is so perfectly "whole" and cohesive in everything it says, we can know it is God who wrote it.

Anyway, it says in Revelation 14:8:

> And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen...
{:.verse}

From here, if you were to lay out the chapter, you would see that in the next few verses God speaks of the cup of His wrath and then, in verses 14 through 20, He goes into a detailed description of harvest. It would be easy to overlook this verse, "*Babylon is fallen is fallen*." It just does not seem "on par" with the enormous topic of Judgment Day and the end of the world that is laid out in the following verses and, yet, why is it here? Why did God make this particular statement and why did He double it by saying, "is fallen, is fallen," placing it in this context?

Historically, we know exactly when Babylon fell. It was in the year 539 BC, after a 70-year period in which Judah was suppressed by Egypt and then Babylon. It is a 70-year period of punishment and God says of the 70 years in Jeremiah 25:11:

> And this whole land shall be a desolation, *and* an astonishment; and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years.
{:.verse}

Remember, in the Book of Daniel it was said that Daniel "understood by books the number of the years, whereof the word of JEHOVAH came to Jeremiah the prophet, that he would accomplish seventy years in the desolations of Jerusalem." Daniel understood it "by books," or the Word of God, the Bible, and he was very likely reading this verse in Jeremiah 25:11. Then it goes on to say in Jeremiah 25:12:

> And it shall come to pass, when seventy years are accomplished, *that* I will punish the king of Babylon, and that nation, saith JEHOVAH, for their iniquity, and the land of the Chaldeans, and will make it perpetual desolations.
{:.verse}

God is first going to give up His people (Judah) to the king of Babylon and the Babylonians. He even speaks of the king of Babylon as His servant because He is going to use him as an instrument of wrath and cruelty to strike against the rebellious people of Judah, the people called by God's name. Following that 70-year period from 609 BC to 539 BC, God will turn His attention to Babylon and its king and He will judge them. That is the point of Babylon's fall, historically. Does Babylon fall at the time it is conquering Judah and taking the Jews captive? Did Babylon fell when it destroyed Jerusalem? No, it did not. They were at the height of their power and it was the time when Babylon was a glorious kingdom and the king of Babylon was ruling over many nations. That period of time represents the Great Tribulation period because the Bible speaks of the 23-year Great Tribulation period as a time when Satan (who is typified by the king of Babylon) is lifted up and his power is increased over the nations and the churches; it was given to him by God to rule as the man of sin that took his seat in the temple, showing himself that he was God.

So the 70 years in which Babylon is victorious relates to the 23 actual years of the Great Tribulation period. The end of the 70 years is the time when Babylon falls. The Medes and the Persians, led by King Cyrus, conquered Babylon in one night, as it says in Daniel, chapter 5. He took the kingdom as the Babylonians were having a party. They were completely unaware and their kingdom was suddenly taken. It is a vivid illustration of Christ coming "as a thief in the night." It is at the end of the 70 years. This would represent the end of the Great Tribulation and, therefore, when God makes the statement, "*Babylon is fallen, is fallen*," He is highlighting the Great Tribulation. He is emphasizing the end of the 23-year period which would tie in with the language that says, "*Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened*." Just as "harvest" in Joel 3 is connected with putting in the sickle to reap with the "day of the Lord" and in Joel 15 it says the sun is darkened and the moon does not giver her light. By making the connection between the harvest and the darkened sun, God is putting His finger on May 21, 2011 because immediately after the Tribulation is the time when the harvest of the world begins. Likewise, when God says, "*Babylon is fallen, is fallen*," God is also putting His finger on the end of the Great Tribulation period because that is when Babylon fell, historically. Spiritually, it was the time when Satan's kingdom of this world fell on May 21, 2011. It is further confirmation that we are understanding things correctly when we look at the language of harvest tying in with May 21, 2011 and the language of Babylon's fall tying with that same date.

God tells us to study to show ourselves approved unto God as workmen that need not be ashamed. We are to study the Bible, comparing Scripture with Scripture. We take a phrase and we search the Bible to see what we can learn and that is how our knowledge grows, as God gives us information here and there in the Bible. So let us take a look at this phrase, "*Babylon is fallen, is fallen*," in order to see what we can learn about it. It says in Isaiah 21:9-10:

> And, behold, here cometh a chariot of men, *with* a couple of horsemen. And he answered and said, Babylon is fallen, is fallen; and all the graven images of her gods he hath broken unto the ground. O my threshing, and the corn of my floor: that which I have heard of JEHOVAH of hosts, the God of Israel, have I declared unto you.
{:.verse}

Why did God say this? He said, "*Babylon is fallen, is fallen*," and then, right away, in the next verse He refers to "*threshing, and the corn of my floor*." What does that have to do with Babylon's fall? What does the language of threshing and corn mean? Remember, it said of Christ in Matthew 3:12:

> Whose fan *is* in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat into the garner; but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.
{:.verse}

This is the language of harvest time. The "*threshing, and the corn of my floor*" has to do with "harvest," and "*Babylon is fallen, is fallen*" is tied to "harvest" in Isaiah, chapter 21. It is a difficult chapter, but we can see that much. We also know that in our passage in Revelation, chapter 14 God speaks of Babylon's fall in the context of "harvest," so this is two times God has done this. We wonder if He does this elsewhere in the Bible. Let us go to Jeremiah 50. This chapter, as well as Jeremiah 51, describes the fall of Babylon and the time of God's judgment upon her. We read in Jeremiah 50:15-16:

> Shout against her round about: she hath given her hand: her foundations are fallen, her walls are thrown down: for it *is* the vengeance of JEHOVAH: take vengeance upon her; as she hath done, do unto her. Cut off the sower from Babylon, and him that handleth the sickle in the time of harvest: for fear of the oppressing sword they shall turn every one to his people, and they shall flee every one to his own land.
{:.verse}

Again, God speaks of Babylon's foundation being fallen and then He says, "*Cut off the sower from Babylon and him that handleth the sickle in the time of harvest*." Is this a coincidence? Is it just random? We know God did not write the Bible randomly. You know, mankind does that; we can just talk and string words together and we say one thing and then an hour later, we can say something else. There is no unity or purpose to it, but that is not how God spoke in the Bible. The Bible is very purposeful. It is very intentional in everything it says. There is meaning, so when God uses a phrase like "*Babylon is fallen, is fallen*," He is identifying the end of the 70 years, the end of the Great Tribulation, with "harvest." He is identifying it with harvest terms like, "threshing" and "corn of the floor" and "putting in the sickle in the time of harvest," just as He has done in Revelation 14. The phrase "*Babylon is fallen, is fallen*," is basically the opening statement in which God then proceeds to lay out Judgment Day. First, He describes it in terms of the cup of His wrath and then He describes it in terms of a harvest.

Look at Jeremiah 51:2:

> And will send unto Babylon fanners...
{:.verse}

Remember the word "thrust" in Revelation 14 is the word "send," and when God speaks of "sending" it has to do with His messengers or His people. Matthew 13 said the reapers are the messengers, the elect people of God, who are going about the business of reaping in the time of harvest. The word "fanners" reminds us of what we just read in Matthew 3:12: "*Whose fan is in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat into the garner*." Fanners are involved in the harvest and it goes on to say in Jeremiah 51:2:

> And will send unto Babylon fanners, that shall fan her, and shall empty her land: for in the day of trouble they shall be against her round about.
{:.verse}

Then notice what is says in Jeremiah 51:8:

> Babylon is suddenly fallen and destroyed: howl for her; take balm for her pain, if so be she may be healed.
{:.verse}

Then it says in Jeremiah 51:33:

> For thus saith JEHOVAH of hosts, the God of Israel; The daughter of Babylon *is* like a threshingfloor, *it is* time to thresh her: yet a little while, and the time of her harvest shall come.
{:.verse}

Here it is stated fairly plainly. Babylon is fallen and the time of harvest is being tied together. In Isaiah 21, Jeremiah 50, Jeremiah 51 and Revelation 14, Babylon is fallen and harvest comes into view. This is not a coincidence. It is very intentional and purposeful. God is signaling to the reader of Revelation 14 that "harvest" is the end of the world; it comes immediately after the Tribulation (as typified by the 70 years). Then God is going to go into some detail about Judgment Day and the end of the world. And God did do this, did He not? In Revelation 14:14 there was a sharp sickle in His hand. In verse 15, he is told, "*Thrust in thy sickle, and reap: for the time is come for thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth is ripe*." It is the same teaching because Babylon represents the kingdom of this world that is ruled over by Satan and it is the time of the earth's "harvest" and it is the time of Babylon's "harvest." It is the time of the end.

As God is laying out His final harvest at the end of the world in verses 14 through 20, He mysteriously provides the language of "1,600 furlongs." The blood flows out of the wine vat or winepress and flows forth for the "space of sixteen hundred furlongs." Some might say, "Oh, it is just a number. It does not mean anything. It may mean something, but it has nothing to do with time." Then why does that number combined with the "8,400 days" of the Great Tribulation form exactly "10,000 days"? If the "1,600 furlongs" is not to be considered in days, then why does God establish that Judgment Day began immediately after the Tribulation and that it is a time of harvest? God established elsewhere that May 21, 2011 was the beginning of Judgment Day and, therefore, the beginning of the harvest. So that sets the "beginning point" of May 21, 2011 as the beginning of the harvest and then God provides the number "1,600." I did not pull this number out of a hat. No man came up with this number, but God gave the number; God wrote the verse, providing the number "1,600" and when that number is placed side by side with the beginning of Judgment Day on May 21, 2011, what happens? We go "four years, four months and sixteen days," which is "4 x 4," and we see the number "4" is emphasized because four points to the furthest extent of whatever is in view, which in this case would be the furthest extent of judgment. What day comes into view? It is October 7, 2015.

Before we talk about that, I think it is important to note that the "1,600 days," in all likelihood, is a season or time of reaping set up by God. It is a time for the "messengers," the people of God, to be involved in the reaping process. We read that there is a "time to reap" in Ecclesiastes 3:1-2:

> To every *thing there is* a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven: A time to be born, and a time to die...
{:.verse}

We could understand this to mean there is a "time" to be "born again," which would have been during the day of salvation. The "time to die" would be the time to experience the judgment of God, and we are presently living in that time. This is the day of God's wrath and God has already killed, spiritually, all the unsaved inhabitants of the earth. Many of these statements (or maybe even all of them) relates either to the day of salvation or the Day of Judgment. Then it goes on to say in Ecclesiastes 3:2:

> ...a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted;
{:.verse}

The "time to plant" was the time to sow the seed of the Gospel during the day of salvation. Then there comes the "time to pluck up that which is planted." Just as the reference to the "time to plant" involved a season of 24-hour days in which God gave much time for people to become saved, likewise, the reference to the "time to pluck up," which is the time to reap, is also a specific period of time. It is Judgment Day, a prolonged period of judgment or a prolonged period of reaping the harvest and bringing it in. We read in Galatians 6:9:

> And let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not. As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all *men*, especially unto them who are of the household of faith.
{:.verse}

The word "opportunity" can also be translated as "season," as it is in the previous verse. It says, "in due season we shall reap," so God is saying there is a season to reap and this is that time. That is why God said we must prophesy again. That is why He commanded us to feed the sheep and to publish the news of Babylon's fall. What is the news of Babylon's fall? It is the fact that "harvest" has come. It is the end of the world and it is time to gather in the fruit and to approach unto God in the harvest. The final harvest that the Bible speaks of is the feast of harvest, which God mentions in conjunction with the Feast of Tabernacles. We often focus on the last day of the Feast of Tabernacles and that is a correct thing to do. Lord willing, we will discuss that in another study, but the Feast of Tabernacles is tied to the feast of "harvest." They are held simultaneously. Leviticus 23:34 speaks of the Feast of Tabernacles occurring on the "fifteenth day of the seventh month," and then it says sin Leviticus 23:39:

> Also in the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in the fruit of the land, ye shall keep a feast unto JEHOVAH seven days: on the first day *shall be* a sabbath, and on the eighth day *shall be* a sabbath.
{:.verse}

It is the identical time period as the Feast of Tabernacles. The "fifteenth day" begins it. The duration of the feast is the same. It speaks of an "eighth day," so that means the "last day" would also be identical. So October 7, 2015 is the last day of the Feast of Tabernacles, but it is also the last day of "harvest." It says in Exodus 23:16:

> And the feast of harvest, the firstfruits of thy labours, which thou hast sown in the field: and the feast of ingathering, *which is* in the end of the year, when thou hast gathered in thy labours out of the field.
{:.verse}

The "fest of ingathering" is the "feast of harvest," and "the harvest is the end of the world." Let us, again, consider that in Revelation 14, God speaks of Babylon's fall and He ties it to "harvest" in several places. He details the harvest in verses 14 through 20, right to the last verse of Revelation, chapter 14, and in that verse God gives the number "1,600." It is not "1,200" or "1,400" or "1,800." It is not any other number, even though the possibilities for it to be another number are limitless. But there is one number that God gives and that number is "1,600," and when we go 1,600 days from the end of the Tribulation and the beginning of harvest (when the sickle was sent in to begin the reaping), we come to October 7, 2015, the last day of harvest. Is that not astounding? Is it not amazing? The one number that God provides happens to take us to the last day of harvest in the very context of Judgment Day, the harvest at the end of the world. We come to the day that is also the 10,000<sup>th</sup> day and it is the 1,600<sup>th</sup> day from May 21, 2011 and that is a number that is "40 x 40" and it is the "last day" of harvest. That is why there is such strong evidence that October 7, 2015 will be the day, in all likelihood, that will be the end of the world.

There is even more evidence because it is not only the last day of harvest but it is the last day of Tabernacles. Lord willing, in our next study we will look more closely at the Feast of Tabernacles and, especially, at that "last day."

