---
title: Why October 7, 2015 is the Likely End of the World, Part 5
speaker: Chris McCann
created_at: 2015-04-05 12:25
slug: why-october-7-2015-is-the-likely-end-of-the-world-part-5
series: true
description: 'Passages covered: Leviticus 23:36-43, Exodus 23:14-17, Deuteronomy 16:13-16,
  Nehemiah 8:14-18, John 7:2-8,37, Acts 2:1, Zephaniah 1:14-15, Revelation 6:17, John
  6:39-44,53-54, John 11:23-24, 1  Thessalonians 4:14,16, John 12:48.'
audio:
  mp3_low:
    length: '55:21'
    bitrate: 32 Kbps
    sample_rate: 22050 Hz
    size: 12.7 MB
    size_bytes: 13286436
    url: http://audiocdn.ebiblefellowship.com/studies/why-october-7-2015-is-the-likely-end-of-the-world/2015.04.05_McCann_-_Why_October_7_2015_is_the_Likely_End_of_the_World_Part_5.mp3
---
Good afternoon and welcome to EBible Fellowship's Sunday afternoon Bible study.  Today we are continuing to look at, "Why October 7, 2015 is the Likely End of the World," and this is study #5 in this series.

So far, we have learned the following information:

1. October 7, 2015 is "10,000 days" since God began judgment on the house of God, the churches of the world, on May 21, 1988;
1. October 7, 2015 is the "1,600<sup>th</sup> day" since God began judgment on the world on May 21, 2011; it would be the "40<sup>th</sup>" forty; and
1. October 7, 2015 is the last day of the Feast of Harvest, which God relates to the end of the world.

There is one more emphasis the Bible places on October 7, 2015.  It is a very important emphasis and it will be the subject of today's study.  It is the fact that October 7, 2015 is also "the last day" of the Feast of Tabernacles.  This is very significant because of how God speaks of the Feast of Tabernacles in the Bible and how He uses that phrase "the last day."  

Let us learn what the Bible has to say about the Feast of Tabernacles and then we will look at that language of "the last day" and we will see how these come together as God links the Feast of Tabernacles with "the last day" of the resurrection and "the last day" of judgment.

Let us begin by going to Leviticus 23:34-43:

> Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, The fifteenth day of this seventh month *shall be* the feast of tabernacles *for* seven days unto JEHOVAH. On the first day *shall be* an holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work *therein*. Seven days ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto JEHOVAH: on the eighth day shall be an holy convocation unto you; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto JEHOVAH: it *is* a solemn assembly; *and ye* shall do no servile work *therein*. These *are* the feasts of JEHOVAH, which ye shall proclaim *to be* holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire unto JEHOVAH, a burnt offering, and a meat offering, a sacrifice, and drink offerings, every thing upon his day: Beside the sabbaths of JEHOVAH, and beside your gifts, and beside all your vows, and beside all your freewill offerings, which ye give unto JEHOVAH. Also in the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in the fruit of the land, ye shall keep a feast unto JEHOVAH seven days: on the first day *shall be* a sabbath, and on the eighth day *shall be* a sabbath. And ye shall take you on the first day the boughs of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and the boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and ye shall rejoice before JEHOVAH your God seven days. And ye shall keep it a feast unto JEHOVAH seven days in the year. It *shall be* a statute for ever in your generations: ye shall celebrate it in the seventh month. Ye shall dwell in booths seven days; all that are Israelites born shall dwell in booths: That your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt: I *am* JEHOVAH your God. 
{:.verse}

This passage relates the Feast of Tabernacles and to the feast of ingathering and they are held simultaneously.  Really, you cannot separate one from the other, although we saw in our last study that through the language of the Bible God typifies the end of the world by the language of "harvest."  He does the same thing with the Feast of Tabernacles.  Both were to be held on the "fifteenth day of the seventh month" in the Hebrew calendar.  Both followed the same timeline for the feasts and both had that "ninth" day; God speaks of eight days and, yet, the Bible indicates there was a "ninth" day, the twenty third day of the second month and it was "the last day" of the Feast of Tabernacles and the day in which everyone would return home. 

They were called by God to come to the feast, we read in Exodus 23:14:

> Three times thou shalt keep a feast unto me in the year. 
{:.verse}

The Lord selected three main feasts:

1. Passover (the feast of unleavened bread)
1. Pentecost (firstfruits)
1. Tabernacles (ingathering)

These three feasts were commanded to be observed each year.  We can see that when God chose three feasts, it indicated His purpose for not only the feasts, but for "times and seasons," spiritually.  These feasts revealed the purpose of God for His "times and seasons" in which His salvation program would be worked out, as well as His judgment program.  

It goes on to say in Exodus 23:15-17:

> Thou shalt keep the feast of unleavened bread: (thou shalt eat unleavened bread seven days, as I commanded thee, in the time appointed of the month Abib; for in it thou camest out from Egypt: and none shall appear before me empty:) And the feast of harvest, the firstfruits of thy labours, which thou hast sown in the field: and the feast of ingathering, *which is* in the end of the year, when thou hast gathered in thy labours out of the field. Three times in the year all thy males shall appear before the Lord JEHOVAH.
{:.verse}

We have mentioned this before, but this is how we learn things from the Bible, as God keeps repeating these things and we keep going over them and talking about them.  Then we begin to learn.  The three feasts were to have three spiritual fulfillments.  The Feast of Passover (the feast of unleavened bread) was spiritually fulfilled when Christ went to the cross; He was hanging on the cross when the Passover lamb was being offered and, according to John the Baptist, Christ was "*the Lamb which taketh away the sin of the world*."  Christ spiritually fulfilled that feast at that time.  Fifty days later we had the Feast of Pentecost (the feast of firstfruits) and God spiritually fulfilled that feast by pouring out the Holy Spirit.

Even though these two feasts were fulfilled in close proximity to one another (only fifty days apart), the third feast, the Feast of Tabernacles (feast of ingathering) would not be fulfilled until almost 2,000 years later, according to God's wisdom.  After all, God had given these commandments concerning the feasts of Passover, Pentecost and Tabernacles at the time when Israel was in the wilderness.  Moses went up to the mount to receive the Law of God and that would have happened after their deliverance from Egypt in 1447 BC and at some time during their forty-year wilderness sojourn.   Therefore, Christ did not go to the cross and spiritually fulfill that Law until nearly 1,400 years later and, likewise, with the spiritual fulfillment of Pentecost, so God can give a Law and then there can be a long space of time before it is spiritually fulfilled.  In God's timetable, it would not be until the time of the end when the third and final feast, the Feast of Tabernacles/Ingathering, would be fulfilled at the end of the world.

Here, in Exodus 23, the feast of ingathering is mentioned and we do not see a reference to Tabernacles, but if we go to Deuteronomy, chapter 16, it says in Deuteronomy 16:13-16:

> Thou shalt observe the feast of tabernacles seven days, after that thou hast gathered in thy corn and thy wine: And thou shalt rejoice in thy feast, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, and thy maidservant, and the Levite, the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow, that *are* within thy gates. Seven days shalt thou keep a solemn feast unto JEHOVAH thy God in the place which JEHOVAH shall choose: because JEHOVAH thy God shall bless thee in all thine increase, and in all the works of thine hands, therefore thou shalt surely rejoice. Three times in a year shall all thy males appear before JEHOVAH thy God in the place which he shall choose; in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles: and they shall not appear before JEHOVAH empty:
{:.verse}

In these verses, God mentions the same three feasts that were to be observed three times in a year.  Here, He calls Pentecost the "feast of weeks" and He does not mention the feast of ingathering, but He mentions Tabernacles because they are held at the identical time.  Therefore, those feasts became very closely related together.  If you wanted to emphasize "harvest," you could speak of the feast of harvest, the final feast of ingathering; or, if you wanted to emphasize tabernacles, you could speak of the Feast of Tabernacles.  Both began on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, so they were linked together by the calendar and they were linked together in God's timetable of "times and seasons."  That is why there is this similarity in the language when we read about Tabernacles or the feast of ingathering.

As we were discussing in our last study, the Bible ties "harvest" with the end of the world.  We looked at Matthew 13:39, where Jesus said, "*The harvest is the end of the world*."  The Bible also ties the language of "the last day" of the Feast of Tabernacles to "the last day" at the end of the world.  They are tied together through that term "the last day."  Let us go to Nehemiah 8:14-17:

> And they found written in the law which JEHOVAH had commanded by Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in booths in the feast of the seventh month: And that they should publish and proclaim in all their cities, and in Jerusalem, saying, Go forth unto the mount, and fetch olive branches, and pine branches, and myrtle branches, and palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to make booths, as *it is* written. So the people went forth, and brought *them*, and made themselves booths, every one upon the roof of his house, and in their courts, and in the courts of the house of God, and in the street of the water gate, and in the street of the gate of Ephraim. And all the congregation of them that were come again out of the captivity made booths...
{:.verse}

I just want to stop here for a second.  Remember, the Feast of Tabernacles is a feast to commemorate the coming out of Egypt.  It is a feast that identifies with tremendous deliverance, as all Israel (every Jew) was delivered from the hard bondage of Egypt.  When Israel came out of Egypt and wandered in the wilderness for forty years, they did not live in houses.  They did not build any villages or huts to live in because they never knew when they would have to move again.  They were subject to the will of God and God determined their movements by His "cloud."  The cloud would reside upon a place and the tabernacle in which the ark was kept would remain and, therefore, all Israel stayed at that particular place until the cloud moved.  The cloud might move the next day or it might move a year from that time, but Israel did not know when the cloud would move.  Once the cloud moved, they had to follow, so that meant they could not have any permanent dwelling and they could not say, "We are going to be here for six months, so let us build more solid structures."  They could not do that because they might move the next day and, therefore, they had temporary dwellings.  They dwelt in "booths."  It was a little tent that was erected for a family and that is where they would live.  They could put it up quickly and when it was time to move they could take it down quickly and follow the cloud wherever God led them.

Yet, God says this in Nehemiah 8:17:

> And all the congregation of them that were come again out of the captivity made booths, and sat under the booths: for since the days of Jeshua the son of Nun unto that day had not the children of Israel done so. And there was very great gladness. 
{:.verse}

Here, when God says they had not done so since the wilderness sojourn in the days of Joshua until the time when the Jews cam out of captivity, what captivity is it?  It was the captivity in Babylon (not Egypt); they had been delivered out of the land in the North and they had returned to Judah, but, spiritually it is the same picture: coming out of Egypt is the same spiritual picture as coming out of the Babylonian captivity.  It points to God delivering His people or saving His elect.

God brings the two events together in Isaiah 48:20-21:

> Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans, with a voice of singing declare ye, tell this, utter it *even* to the end of the earth; say ye, JEHOVAH hath redeemed his servant Jacob. And they thirsted not *when* he led them through the deserts: he caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them: he clave the rock also, and the waters gushed out. 
{:.verse}

Do you see what God has done here?  He said, "*Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans*," and immediately He began to talk about the Jews coming out of captivity in Egypt and how they thirsted in the desert.  How can God write that way?  No wonder the Bible is such a confusing Book to the natural man and their unregenerate minds; they cannot understand how God wrote the Bible.  There is actually tremendous consistency from verse 20 to verse 21, when we look at it spiritually.  Then we understand that Babylon represents the kingdom of Satan, ruled over by the king of Babylon, who represents Satan.  Egypt also represents the kingdom of Satan, ruled over by Pharaoh, a type of Satan, so they are very similar pictures and coming out of Egypt is akin to coming out of Babylon.

So the Feast of Tabernacles was being observed, as we read in Nehemiah, chapter 8, by the congregation that came out of Babylonian captivity and this is very fitting because their coming out of captivity is very closely related to the Israelites coming out of Egypt when they dwelled in booths.  But now the congregation is making booths to dwell in and, again, it says in Nehemiah 8:17:

> And all the congregation of them that were come again out of the captivity made booths, and sat under the booths: for since the days of Jeshua the son of Nun unto that day had not the children of Israel done so. And there was very great gladness. 
{:.verse}

It is almost as though all the history in between the two events had been skipped over from the days of Joshua until this time, just as the Feast of Tabernacles had not been officially observed until we got to the time of the end of the world when God delivers all "spiritual Israel," all those in bondage to sin and to Satan.  On May 21, 2011, that great day of deliverance, God opened up the prison doors and He let all the captives go free that had been bound, but who had been chosen to become saved from the foundation of the world.  At that point, the last of the elect became saved and it was as though all Israel had now left Egypt or that all the Jews had come out of the captivity in Babylon.  It was what those historical events pointed to when God saved the last person to be saved, the last name written in the Lamb's Book of Life.  When that person had the Word of God applied to his or her heart and became born again, the deliverance was complete.  What happens next?  If you were a Jew in Egypt, you had been suffering under cruel bondage and now you were delivered.  What a glorious and wonderful time and you go forth, but only to be tried and tested for forty years.  On May 21, 2011 God delivered all He intended to deliver and a period of "testing" ensued, in all likelihood for a period of "40 x 40," and that is a spiritual fulfillment of wandering in the wilderness after the great deliverance and dwelling in booths.  

To say it another way, on May 21, 2011 the people of God began to spiritually fulfill the Feast of Tabernacles or the feast of booths, and we began to wander in the wilderness of this world after having experienced deliverance of all the people of God and we also began to be tested.  This is exactly what Israel went through physically and "spiritual Israel" has been going through a test and the Feast of Tabernacles is being observed, as we continue, day by day.  Where are we going?  We are headed toward October 7, 2015, which happens to be "the last day" of the Feast of Tabernacles, which was the travel day, historically, in the twenty third day of the seventh month.  It was the day that everyone would go home because the feast was over.  God gave this additional day because people could not leave on the eighth day because it was a Sabbath and you could only travel a certain distance on a Sabbath.  There was a thing God called "a Sabbath day's journey" and it was not very long way, so God made provision for a ninth day, which was the equivalent of the eighth day, and on this twenty third day of the seventh month, people would go home.  It would be the perfect day, spiritually, for God to take His people home who had been observing the Feast of Tabernacles through their wandering and period of testing after the great deliverance.  

But, first let us finish reading our passage in the Book of Nehemiah.  It says in Nehemiah 8:18:
 
> Also day by day, from the first day unto the last day, he read in the book of the law of God. And they kept the feast seven days; and on the eighth day *was* a solemn assembly, according unto the manner.
{:.verse}

Here, God just happens to mention "the last day" in connection with the Feast of Tabernacles and it would be easy to just gloss over it when reading and not to think too much of it.  "Oh, of course, from the first day to the last day there is a seven-day feast and there is an eighth day.  And, alright, we know there is a ninth day equivalent to the eighth day, and it is a travel day."

By the way, we know this from the account of the dedication of the house of God that took place in Solomon's day at the time of the Feast of Tabernacles.  It mentions in Chronicles and Kings a "twenty third day" and you can count out the days in this exercise: Get a pencil and paper and write, "15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23."  Then above that, write "1" above the "15" and "2" above the "16," and so on, and when you are done, you will have nine days.  That last day is the day that October 7, 2015 falls upon – it is that "last day" the Bible considers to be the equivalent of the eighth day.  Let me read it so people can see that I am not just saying this.  It says 2 Chronicles 7:8-10:

> Also at the same time Solomon kept the feast seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great congregation, from the entering in of Hamath unto the river of Egypt. And in the eighth day they made a solemn assembly: for they kept the dedication of the altar seven days, and the feast seven days. And on the three and twentieth day of the seventh month he sent the people away into their tents, glad and merry in heart for the goodness that JEHOVAH had shewed unto David, and to Solomon, and to Israel his people. 
{:.verse}

Again, just jot down the numbers "15" through "23" and count out the numbers "1" through "9" and you will note that the twenty third day is the ninth day.  They were sent away into their tents.  Since all the males of Israel had to present themselves, they would have brought their families to observe the feast.  It would actually help solve the "housing problem," as there would be a shortage of rooms, so they dwelt in tents in observance of the feast.  That is what we read in Nehemiah 8; they were building booths in order to keep the Feast of Tabernacles and that was from the first day to "the last day."  

That phrase "last day" is used again by God in relationship to the Feast of Tabernacles in the New Testament, in John 7:2-8:

> Now the Jews' feast of tabernacles was at hand. His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart hence, and go into Judaea, that thy disciples also may see the works that thou doest. For *there is* no man *that* doeth any thing in secret, and he himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou do these things, shew thyself to the world. For neither did his brethren believe in him. Then Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet come: but your time is alway ready. The world cannot hate you; but me it hateth, because I testify of it, that the works thereof are evil. Go ye up unto this feast: I go not up yet unto this feast; for my time is not yet full come. 
{:.verse}

The setting is the Feast of Tabernacles and Jesus mysteriously speaks of not yet going up to the feast because "his time is not yet full come," and, yet, immediately after He said this He went up to the feast.  It does not seem to make sense until we realize He was referring to the spiritual fulfillment of the Feast of Tabernacles, the third major feast.  Remember, Passover was spiritually fulfilled at the cross and Pentecost was spiritually fulfilled on the Day of Pentecost.  Let us just take a look at that in Acts 2:1:

> And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. 
{:.verse}

Then the Holy Spirit was poured out.  But note the language: "*And when the day of Pentecost was fully come*." The Holy Spirit was poured out, fulfilling the spiritual dimension of the Feast of Pentecost.  The Feast of Pentecost was finally observed.  Every year that feast had been kept outwardly by the Jews to varying degrees over the course of centuries since the laws regarding ceremonial feast days, but never had it been spiritually fulfilled because the Holy Spirit had never been "poured out" until the Day of Pentecost in 33 AD, after Christ had gone to the cross.  Now all was ready and "fully come" and God would officially evangelize the world by establishing the church age through the pouring out of the Holy Spirit.  Pentecost had "fully come" and on that day 3,000 heard a sermon and became saved, as the firstfruits began to come in; the firstfruits would continue to come in throughout the church age, which identified with the feast of firstfruits.

When Jesus spoke of the Feast of Tabernacles, He said, "*I go not up yet unto this feast; for my time is not yet full come*."   In other words, the spiritual dimension of the Feast of Tabernacles was not to be observed in 33 AD.  So Jesus went up to the feast after saying this, because He was not saying something "off the wall."  He said this in wisdom.  He would go up to the Feast of Tabernacles, physically, along with the other Jews that were observing the feast in that day, but the Feast of Tabernacles was not to be spiritually fulfilled in that year, so His "time" was "not yet full come," because He was making reference to the end of the world when God spiritually would fulfill this feast day when His salvation program was complete and He would shut the door of heaven and bring about Judgment Day.  The whole prolonged period of Judgment Day is an observance of the Feast of Tabernacles unto "the last day."  Then Christ would "fully come" to observe the feast because He would come as the Judge in His wrath to punish the inhabitants of the earth and to try or test the faith of all His people.  

Also, here in John, chapter 7, it says in John 7:37:

> In the last day, that great *day* of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink. 
{:.verse}

Here, Christ is identifying with "the last day."  We found that phrase in Nehemiah, chapter 8, and now we find the same phrase in association with Tabernacles.  This phrase does point to the end of the world and we will show that as we go on in this study. 

Some people see this declaration by Jesus, "*If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink*," and they mistakenly think it has to do with the sending forth of the Gospel.  They say, "You see, Christ wants people to become saved even up until the end of the world."  They correctly understand that "the last day" refers to the end, but this is a call to come and drink of living water that flows for evermore in eternity future.  We are never to take away some verses and just go with our assumptions.  We are to check out the words and the language.  It says, "*If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink*," so let us go to Revelation 21, in the context of the first heaven and first earth passing away, where it says in Revelation 21:5-6:

> And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful. And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. 
{:.verse}

Here it is.  It is the end of the world.  The world has passed away and it is the time of the new heaven and new earth.  And there is Jesus saying, "*It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end*."  It says elsewhere that He is the "first and the last," so He is the "last" and it is "the last day," that great day of the feast, and He is saying this to His people that are burdened and tried and afflicted and they have been staggering along ever since entering into this grievous period of chastisement and trial.  Now Christ is comforting His people, "*Come unto me, and drink*," and they will drink of the pure water of the Gospel of God eternally, for ever and ever.  What a perfect point in time to make that kind of declaration for the people of God, as they will now turn their attention to eternity future.  

Notice that is also said, "*In the last day, that great *day* of the feast*."  The word "day" here is italicized, but the first part of the statement does say, "in the last day," so this would mean the great day is the last day of the feast, so the translators helped us with that.  It says in Zephaniah 1:14-16:

> The great day of JEHOVAH *is* near, *it is* near, and hasteth greatly, *even* the voice of the day of JEHOVAH: the mighty man shall cry there bitterly. That day *is* a day of wrath, a day of trouble and distress, a day of wasteness and desolation, a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness, A day of the trumpet and alarm against the fenced cities, and against the high towers. 
{:.verse}

The "great day of JEHOVAH" is the day of God's wrath.  It says in Revelation 6:17:

> For the great day of his wrath is come; and who shall be able to stand? 
{:.verse}

It is "the last day," that great day of the feast.  It is the great day of JEHOVAH and it is the day of the furious anger of God as He punishes the world for their iniquity.

But, let us move on.  We do not have much time, but we have seen God use the phrase "the last day" in relationship to the Feast of Tabernacles.  We would think that since this is the Bible, the phrase "the last day" would be numerous --- you would think it would be everywhere because God does warn about the end of the world often in the Bible.  Actually, the phrase "the last day" is only found eight times in the entire Bible.  It is only found one time in the Old Testament, in the verse we read in Nehemiah 8:18 and it is found seven times in the New Testament.  It is found once in John 7:37 and it is also found the other six times in the Gospel of John.  Let us turn back to John 6:39-40:

> And this is the Father's will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day. And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I will raise him up at the last day. 
{:.verse}

Then it says in John 6:43-44:

> Jesus therefore answered and said unto them, Murmur not among yourselves. No man can come to me, except the Father which hath sent me draw him: and I will raise him up at the last day. 
{:.verse}

Finally, let us go to John 6:53-54:

> Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day. 
{:.verse}

Four times in this one chapter Jesus speaks of raising him up on "the last day."  This term "raise him up" has everything to do with the resurrection.  Let us go to 1 Thessalonians 4:14:

> For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again...
{:.verse}

This is a translation of the same Greek word that is translated as "raised up."  Again, it says in 1 Thessalonians 4:14:

> For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him.
{:.verse}

Then it says in 1 Thessalonians 4:16:

> For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first: 
{:.verse}

They will "rise" or "raise up" and this is language of the resurrection.  By the way, since this is Easter Sunday, you probably thought we were not going to talk about the resurrection, but here it is.  The Bible led us, in looking at the Feast of Tabernacles and especially at "the last day" of the Feast of Tabernacles, to the resurrection of the dead: "*And I will raise him up at the last day*."  It did not say it just once, twice or three times, but Jesus said this four times in just a few verses.  What point do you think He is trying to make?  He will most certainly resurrect His people.  They will not die and stay in the ground.  Their bodies will "rise" and they will come up from the grave.  This is what Martha had confidence in, as we read in John 11:20-26:

Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him: but Mary sat *still* in the house. Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give *it* thee. Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again. Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day. Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this? 

If you were paying attention, we see our phrase in verse 24: "*Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day*."  Here we see, again, the phrase "the last day."  It was mentioned four times in John, chapter 6, and once here in John, chapter 11, and all five times it was used in reference to the resurrection at the end of the world.  That is seven times in total and there is only one other place it is found.  It is also in the Book of John, in John 12:48:

> He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him: the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day. 
{:.verse}

Here, God indicates that the Word of God will judge "in the last day."  Notice there is a slight difference in the other verses where it said "at the last day."  Even in John 11:24, it said, "*in the resurrection at the last day*," but, here in John 12:48, it said: "*the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day*," and we see how careful and exact God is because the Word has been judging over the course of this prolonged Day of Judgment from May 21, 2011 to October 7, 2015, in all likelihood.  The word is judging in the context of the last day, but it is only "at" the last day, when it would be the final day, that there is the resurrection and the "raising up" of God's people.  So God carefully chose even that little word and He does not use the word "in" when speaking of raising up His people "at the last day," and that means the Bible does view "the last day" (which, in all likelihood, is October 7, 2015) as the final day of judgment.  

It is a day that stands alone in many regards.  There is a heavy, heavy emphasis placed on October 7, 2015.  We can say this absolutely when we say there is a strong likelihood that it will be the end and this means that, perhaps, we are wrong and it will not be the end of the world, but we can say some things in an absolute way in regard to October 7, 2015:

1. It absolutely is the 10,000<sup>th</sup> day of judgment since May 21, 1988;
1. It absolutely is the 1,600<sup>th</sup> day (or the 40<sup>th</sup> "forty) since May 21, 2011; 
1. It absolutely is "the last day" of harvest in 2015; 
1. It absolutely is "the last day" of the Feast of Tabernacles in 2015.

All these things are coming together to fall on that particular day.  It is the 10,000<sup>th</sup> day, the 1,600<sup>th</sup> day, the final day of harvest and the final day of Tabernacles.  Will it be "the last day" of this world's existence?

