---
title: Open Forum Press Event with Harold Camping on May 23, 2011
slug: open-forum-press-meeting-with-harold-camping
kind: article
created_at: "2011-05-23 23:00:00"
audio_save:
- /audio/misc/2011.05.23_Open_Forum.yaml
audio_url: "http://c359179.r79.cf2.rackcdn.com/misc/2011.05.23_Open_Forum.mp3"
head_scripts:
  '<style type="text/css">h4 { margin-left: 3.5em; }</style>'
excerpt: |
  <p>Harold Camping makes a statement about May 21, 2011 reacting to events not unfolding as expected after the date passed. In addition, he takes questions from the media on this subject.</p>
  
  <p>A few quotes from this longer statement attempt to sum up from Mr. Camping's perspective what happened regarding the May 21, 2011 prediction and the future plans for <em>Family Radio</em>:</p>

  <p>"You know, the fact is, when you study the Bible, you are always learning. We had all of our dates correct. We had all the proofs correct--they don't change at all. Every proof, every sign, is all correct. The only thing is, God had not opened our eyes yet to the fact that May 21 was a spiritual coming: Whereas, we had thought that it was a physical coming."</p>
  
  <p>"May 21 was a day when Christ came and put the world under judgment. And absolutely, there is a big change in the world. They are under judgment, where they were not on May 20th. They are under judgment."</p>
  
  <p>"We said that, the Judgment Day was going to be here. And it is here. But it's not physically at this time. It is spiritual. But Christ has come. It is Judgment Day. We have not been wrong about that at all."</p>
  
  <p>"I have said that already, more than several times tonight. I was wrong. It was to be understood spiritually, not physically. Yet, the sense of it is still the same, that judgment has come. The world is now under judgment, where it was not prior to May 21."</p>
  
  <p>"But He has come. He has come in a sense that He now has the world under judgment. And so, our task is done. From now on, our programming is going to be lots of music and lots of teaching to those who are children of God; trying to encourage them how to live a life that is faithful to the Word. The whole business of Judgment Day and all the terrible things that we have been saying in the past, will all be gone."</p>

tags:
  - audio
  - May 21 2011
  - Family Radio
  - Open Forum
---
# Open Forum Press Event with Harold Camping on May 23, 2011

## A few quotes extracted from the longer transcript below

<%= @item[:excerpt] %>

## Audio

{::nomarkdown}
<div style="margin-left: 65px;">
<object type="application/x-shockwave-flash" data="http://www.google.com/reader/ui/3523697345-audio-player.swf" width="310" height="27" id="jd_player">
<param name="movie" value="http://www.google.com/reader/ui/3523697345-audio-player.swf">
<param name="flashvars" value="audioUrl=<%= @item[:audio_url] %>">
</object>
</div>
{:/nomarkdown}

[Download MP3](<%= @item[:audio_url] %>)

**[ The following is a transcription of the audio from the event. ]**

## Statement to the Press

Welcome to the *Open Forum*.  Once again we have an opportunity to talk together--well, not really. Tonight, this is a different kind of an *Open Forum* and then tomorrow evening, the Lord willing, we'll go back to our regular *Open Forum* where we will be taking calls from our listeners.

But tonight, this is an *Open Forum* in which we have invited all of the news people that are interested in what's happening to *Family Radio* in what we're teaching
to come here and I'm going to be speaking for a little bit because there's a lot of concern about what in the world is happening and what I think and so on and I very honorably have to face that.  And then we're going to give the press an opportunity to ask a few questions and that will be the way this program will be conducted tonight.

### Initial Reaction of May 21, 2011 not Unfolding as Expected

**1:00**{:.time} Now, you know, for many, many months now, we have been teaching that May 21 is Judgment Day. And of course, this last weekend become a very interesting weekend because May 21 came and is gone.  All the dire predictions that had been talked about did not come to pass.

So, the first question is, Camping, what about you? Are you ready to shoot yourself? Or are you ready to go on a booze trip (or whatever)?

Well, I can tell you very candidly, that when May 21 came--and went, it was a very difficult time for me, a very difficult time. I was truly, truly wondering, what is going on? In my mind, I went back through all of the promises that God has made, all of the proofs, all of the signs and everything was fitting perfectly. What in the world happened?

And I really, really, was praying and praying and praying, Oh Lord, what happened?: Because all through this, I have been just astounded at the way God had opened door after door after door. He has sent wonderful people to us to manage our caravans, to manage the putting out of billboards, the managing of our tract distribution and so on and so on.

And it was just marvelous the way everything was going together, until May 21 rolled around. And then suddenly it looked like, What happened? What happened?

Well you know, I stayed away from home for one night because I'll tell you, the pressure from that phone ringing and the pressure of people knocking on my door (because they wanted an interview) was more than I could stand. And so my wife and I, we went to a motel some place and spent the night there: And watching television, looking what the news media was doing and praying and praying.

### Relating the Spiritual Outcome of September 7, 1994 with May 21, 2011

**3:36**{:.time} Well then something interesting happened. I got home and I began to look at some of the news articles in the local papers. And you know, the media (You people know that as well as I do, that you are looking for information in any direction that you can go).

And someone called (a friend of mine, Dr. Gabrielle Otero) and I talked with him. And what he had to say was put (at least in part was put) in the newspaper. And when I read that, suddenly the light dawned. Suddenly, I felt way better.

You know, let me talk about Otero for just a moment. He's been a dear friend of mine for over 30 years. And he was the founder of our *Family Radio School of the Bible*. He was the Dean for many, many years. When I spoke at conferences, he very frequently was also speaking at the same conference.

And even though he was in some ways, he didn't understand everything I was teaching, nevertheless, he was one individual that I could sit down and talk with and talk very candidly. And there never was any contention between us at all.

The fact is, every time he would visit *Family Radio*, I would be delighted to have him come into my office and we would spend an hour or so together going through whatever it was.

Well then, he was talking to the news media. And he made a statement (or the news did; I don't know whether the news media got it right, but at least this is what they claimed he said):

He said, You know, when September 7th rolled around in 1994 (at the time I was predicting then that there was a high probability that, that might be the end of the world).

He says, You know, I had a private discussion with Camping at that time (and this is what I read in the news report). Otero said, "The Lord did return to earth on that date in a mystical way, taking the Holy Spirit back to Heaven."

And suddenly, I felt better. The light dawned. This quotation was not quite accurate. But I did remember the conversation, even though it was all maybe 20 years ago (or 18 years ago): Because we talk very candidly to each other.

What he should have said is, that I had said, "The Lord did return to earth on that date in a mystical way, taking the Holy Spirit here to again begin to evangelize the world: Because on September 7th, in 1994, it is a fact that God again began to evangelize the world outside of the churches."

And I thought, oh, there's the answer. We have been looking at the information in the Bible too earthly, too like it was actually physically going to happen (when the Bible is a very spiritual Book. And there are a lot of things in it that are very factual of course, very factual. But there is also a lot that is very spiritual).

But how to know whether to look for it in a spiritual understanding, or in its physical understanding, is a very, very difficult task. But suddenly it dawned on me, oh, I see what happened.

We were convinced that on May 21, God would return here in a very physical way (that is, by bringing a great earthquake and by ushering in the final five months of the Day of Judgment). And the fact is, when we look at it spiritually, then we find, He did come. He did come. Now let me back up.

### The End of the World is Still on October 21, 2011

**8:20**{:.time} The fact is, you're going to find out that I am going to be saying, There's not a new date. We've already been talking again and again about the end of the world being October 21, in 2011. But we have not emphasized that because the first down payment (or the beginning of it) was the fact that we would see all of these things happening and usher into a five months period of very, very terrible time.

And you know, I listened to everybody. But I always check them out with the Scriptures before I follow that. But today, I received a letter from somebody (one of our listeners); and I want to read it. Its a very, very nice statement. And I think I'm learning something from it: 

> The great earthquake and rapture and the universe melting in fervent heat will all happen on the last day, October 21, 2011.

The last day: It's the final day. That agrees with exactly with what we were saying. Then this person said: 

> The great earthquake and rapture and the universe melting in fervent heat will all happen on the last day, October 21, 2011.

In other words, we have been teaching that it would happen on May 21. But its all going to be compressed on the last day. And this person has got an insight here that of course, we're going to be checking out very carefully.

> The great earthquake didn't happen on May 21st because no one will be able to survive it for more than a few days or let alone five months to suffer God's wrath. Because everything will be leveled and destroyed after the great earthquake and there will be no food source and water source to keep anyone alive and there will be no shelter. 

> And, for the great earthquake to come to shake all the dead from out of the grave is a very massive and intense earthquake that will break the earth's very fragile and light crust into many pieces which will begin to sink into the earth's inner mantel which is very hot molten lava which is known as the earth's magma which is liquid iron because the earth is always rotating very fast and the earth's crust is just floating on top of the earth's mantel so if the earth's crust is broken into pieces it will begin to sink into the earth's mantel and this will begin the beginning of the universe melting in fervent heat which will not take long.

(I'm not so sure that all of that statement is accurate, The mantel and so on. But anyways, this is what this person wrote; but now this statement is a good statement) 

> Because God is a merciful and loving and compassionate God, He will not let anyone suffer hell on earth for five months as we can see that God will not let anyone suffer for an eternity in hell as we can see that there is no eternity in hell as God is a loving and compassionate and merciful God because God is the same yesterday and today and tomorrow. So, if we have the no eternal hell doctrine then we should also expect the no hell on earth for five months doctrine because it is not in God's holy and perfect character to have any long term horrible suffering for anyone. 

Now, I want to echo that: That's a very excellent statement, because the Bible tells us that Christ has no pleasure in the death of the wicked. And as I have said repeatedly, when Christ looked at Jerusalem that was under the wrath of God, and He wept over it. 

> And when he was come near, he beheld the city, and wept over it, Luke 19:41, KJV. 

Here is Almighty God. Christ never ceased to be Almighty God. And He's weeping over Jerusalem, that is under His wrath. And that tells us something, that God is a very compassionate God.

And while the Law of God demands that there has to be punishment, it does not mean that God is going to punish and punish and punish. One of the wonderful things that God has taught us in these last months and last years, is that what the churches have been teaching all through time (and I used to teach this also, because I was brought up in a church): Namely, that on the last day, you're going to be resurrected (if you have died as an unsaved person); and you are going to stand before Christ as the Judge. And you are going to be found guilty. And the sentence is going to be passed, Away to hell you go.

(And that's the language I used repeatedly through the years: And, you're going to be suffering there forever and ever)

Of course, that was real nice for the churches because then if someone asked, With that kind of punishment, I'm frightened out of my skin. What can I do?

And then the churches came along, and every congregation had a plan, where they would show people how to become saved: You have to accept Christ. You have to do this. You have to be baptized in water and the other thing. And you know, if you join our church and follow all that we are doing, then you will also, you can know that youre a saved person. And when you die, youre going to go to Heaven, you can depend upon it.

And so it was really a terrific club that the churches could use to bring people into their congregation. And that's the way congregations were built. Now, we have learned in these last years (and I teach it very freely): That, No, the wages of sin is death. And after you're dead, you're dead, and you have no more conscious existence, none.

And its true that in the Day of Judgment, there would be shaming of those that are left behind (or those who died during the Day of Judgment). But they would not have any conscious existence of this.

So this person who has written this, has really understood that. But now this person goes on:

> Mr. Camping should use the immediate and interested media to proclaim the end of the world on October 21, 2011. And, to let the media know that God showed us that no man knows the day or the hour of His return is proven to us by this May 21st date when the great earthquake and rapture didn't happen. And, as God is humbling us and showing us His glorious and perfect character of love and mercy and compassion, God did not allow the great earthquake to happen yet so that no man will have to suffer for five months of hell on earth. And, as God is a merciful and loving and compassionate God, He allowed the warning of the end of the world to go out into all the world. So, now the warning of the end of the world is out and this is truly that beginning of Judgment Day, May 21st, 2011, the five months of judgment on earth, as God will judge all the people of the world as this will show the righteous from the scoffers and mockers in the last days as we can see in the book of Revelation in the Holy Bible because we want the Bible to be true as we proclaim the end of the world to be October 21, 2011.

Now, that letter came from somebody who is not a theologian of any kind. And yet, it has got a lot of sense to it. Now the fact is, that when we analyze that (And how this past few days has been a learning program, believe you me, for me; and I hope that it has been for others).

### Four Crucial Days Related to the End Times

**18:06**{:.time} Actually, there are four days that are very crucial in the end time. And at this point in time, we've talked about all four of these days in the past. Weve written about them. And we're not making any changes in the four days, except on the emphasis on a couple of the days (on one of the days).

#### The Date May 21, 1988

**18:35**{:.time} The first part of the end of the world, began on May 21, 1988. It was at that time that God brought His judgment on all of the church congregations. And we have been teaching that for, oh at least the last ten years, very definitely: That on May 21, that was a day before Pentecost in 1988, when God began to bring judgment on the Church Age. And the Bible is dripping with all kinds of information that indicates that God was so upset with the churches, and as they have developed their own rules of what the nature of Salvation is, and the authority of God.

For example, I've said this repeatedly: There is no church that believes that every word in the original language (in the Bible, in the original language) came from the lips of God--no church does. I grew up in a church that did not believe that. The Church Fathers, the Church Theologians did not believe that (Ive checked them out; I've read lots of theological books on this, and I find that is the case).

They simply said that, Paul said this. And Moses said that. Jeremiah says something else. Matthew said something else (When they should have been saying constantly, God said this. And He gave the message that He wanted to tell to Paul, or to Moses, or to whoever it was.

And so, it makes a tremendous difference on how important the Bible is. If it came from the lips of God, then you tremble before it; you really tremble before it. If it came from the lips of Paul or from Moses, you could say, Well, he was a human being and he had some limitations. But God does not have any limitations. 

Well anyways, so finally in May 21, of 1988 (and we already have been teaching that for at least the last ten years or longer. We wrote a book, I wrote a book *THE END OF THE CHURCH AGE AND AFTER*. It was published in 2002, the year 2002, which was nine years ago: Although, I had been teaching it for some years before that).

And at that time, there was judgment and there was Salvation in view. Let me explain. The Gospel Message has two sides to it. It has Salvation. It has judgment. The Gospel message is teaching that God is a God of Law; the whole Bible is a Law Book. And when we break the slightest command, were under the judgment of God.

Salvation comes if Christ made payment for our sins somehow. Then we are not going to be brought to task for that, because Christ satisfied the Law by making the payment. And that's the nature of the Gospel. There is Salvation through Christ. There is judgment for those who do not have Christ having made payment for them.

And so here on May 21, 1988, the Salvation aspect was terrible things to the churches: Because at that point, God, Christ left the churches and installed Satan there. We have been teaching this for years and years and years. And so it was a judgment--to make the judgment more severe, God actually enlisted Satan, who is the enemy of God, to rule in the churches. So, it was a terrible, terrible year, a terrible time.

#### The Date September 7, 1994

**23:00**{:.time} Then the next thing that happened was in the year 1994, the year that identified with the book that I had written, *1994?* There again, there was judgment and there was Salvation.

It was at that time, that it was the Feast of the Trumpets: And just like May 21, 1988 was the day after the Feast of Pentecost. These are Biblical feast days, that help to structure Gods plan for the end. Everything in Gods plan fits a very, very structured way. It is not by whim or caprice of some kind. It is all very structured.

And on September 7th, 1994, when I said, There's a high likelihood there was Judgment Day. It was true, there was judgment in a terrible way. And it was Salvation in a wonderful way.

The Salvation came because for the previous 2300 days, from May 21, 1988 until September 7th, 1994, virtually no one could be saved in the entire world. We didn't even know how bad it was: *Family Radio* was broadcasting in those days. And we had no idea what was really going until later on, as we continued to study the Bible.

But on September 7th, then God brought even more judgment on the churches: Because in the world, where Gods judgment had begun, God lifted that judgment and began to allow the people to become saved outside of the churches, leaving the churches under judgment.

And so, it was a horrible day for the churches. They continued under the judgment of God. It was a wonderful day for the world, because in the world now, people could again become saved. God began to bring a final ingathering.

Well then, and that September 7th was a very special day. It was called (the theologians call it) The Feast of Trumpets. But actually, it would have been better called a Feast of the Memorial of the Jubilee.

Now the Jubilee is a Feast Day that comes (a Feast Year) that comes every fifty years in the Biblical Calendar. And the purpose of the Jubile is to tell the world that they can be made free from their bondage. It is to declare the Gospel to the world. And that happened on September 7th: But it was spiritual, it was not a physical time when Christ came to bring judgment on the church and to bring wonderful Salvation to the world. But it was spiritual altogether.

And the evidence that God had really done this to the churches, have been seen ever since. If we take (and I use this illustration again and again): If we take a snap shot of the churches fifty years ago, and compare them with the churches of our day, they are entirely different (on the average, entirely different). They have far less respect for the Word of God. They have far different rules for marriage and divorce. They have far different music most of the time in the churches.

A lot of people ask me from time to time, they ask me, Oh no, no, in our church we love the Lord. Oh, we love the Lord. And we had ten people make confession of faith last week.

And I began to ask them, because I know something about whats going on in the churches. I said (Well, hold on for just a moment, we have got to pause for a second). 
 
**[ Break for station identification and announcements ]**

And the fact is that on May 21, 2011, this last weekend: At that time, again judgment and Salvation is in view. The fact is that, on May 21, 1988, judgment came upon the churches. On September 7th, the judgment continued on the churches and it will remain there all the way to until the end.

But in the world, God lifted that and we saw that Salvation began again outside of the churches. Now, when God brought judgment on the churches in May 21, 1988, He also brought judgment on the world. But as I indicated, in 1994, He lifted that judgment.

#### The Date May 21, 2011

But now on May 21, that weekend (and this is where the spiritual aspect of it really comes through): God again brought judgment on the world. From May 7th, 1994 until May 21, 2011, the world was not under judgment. It was still an opportunity to become saved out there.

But on May 21, 2011, we didn't feel any difference. We didn't see any difference in the world. But we know from the Bible, that God brought Judgment Day to bear on the whole world. The whole world is under Judgment Day. And it will continue right up until October 21, 2011. And at that time, the whole world will be destroyed.

#### The Date October 21, 2011 and Family Radio's Plans Until Then

And so, this is why we don't have to talk about this anymore. The world is under judgment. We are not going to be passing out any more tracts, talking about Judgment Day. We are not going to be putting up anymore billboards (in fact, they're all coming down right now). We are not going to be advertising in any way, anywhere about Judgment Day. It's all done. That's all done. The world has been warned--my it has been warned, and we did our little share; and then the media picked it up (boy, did they really pick it up).

But now, the world has been told. The world is under judgment. The finish of that five months, this five months from now, on May 21, will be as we learn from the Bible, October 21 (We aren't changing a date at all). We're just learning that we have got to be looking at this a little bit more spiritual. But it won't be spiritual on October 21, because the Bible clearly teaches, that then the world is going to be destroyed altogether (but it will be very quick; it won't be a five months terrible difficulty as we thought it was; that we have learned, as we have been taught).

You know, the fact is, when you study the Bible, you are always learning. We had all of our dates correct. We had all the proofs correct--they don't change at all. Every proof, every sign, is all correct. The only thing is, God had not opened our eyes yet to the fact that May 21 was a spiritual coming: Whereas, we had thought that it was a physical coming.

But He has come. He has come in a sense that He now has the world under judgment. And so, our task is done. From now on, our programming is going to be lots of music and lots of teaching to those who are children of God; trying to encourage them how to live a life that is faithful to the Word. The whole business of Judgment Day and all the terrible things that we have been saying in the past, will all be gone.

### Good Friend Gabrielle Otero in Helping to Understand Greek and Hebrew

Incidentally, I want to make one more remark about my friend, Gabrielle Otero, because he has been a real friend of mine, and also a great help to me. You know, years ago, I always struggled with Greek and Hebrew, because I really had never learned about Greek and Hebrew.

But Doctor Otero, he was an engineer, just as I was. So he and I both looked at the Bible very analytical. And his field was Greek and Hebrew. That's where he got his doctorate in, as near as I can remember.

And so he had his office right close to mine. And again and again and again, I would run across a passage that I need to have more information about: About, what does this Greek word mean, and what this could possibly be. And he always bailed me out. He really helped me in this, the whole business of understanding the Greek and the Hebrew language.

Then, it was very interesting, about ten years ago, he came to me and he says, You know, there is an outfit and (I forgot to bring one of those books here). But anyways, it has been put together by linguists (not by theologians, but by grammarians, rather): By grammarians; and they were hoping that (Its a big 35 volume set, beautiful books) that gave every word in the original language; and showed exactly what the grammatical structure was.

For example, did you know that a Greek verb can have as many as 40 or 50 different tenses. We don't know anything about that in the English language. And so there's no Greek student in the world that can know all of that, unless he's a genius.

And so, they too will have to go to a grammar book. Well, that outfit printed 50 books, I was told. And then they went bankrupt. And so, they had some sets for sale for about $500.00 (which was about $5.00 a piece for a beautiful book).

And he told me about it. And I said, Let's get three sets. You get one. I'll get one for my office, and I'll get one for my home.

And my, my, that was a gift of God. And I owe a lot to my friend, Gabrielle Otero. But that is the way God has been guiding, us helping. 

## Questions from the Media

But now we're at that point, where we're ready to take a question or two from you if you have a question.  

**35:19**{:.time} **Media:** Mr. Camping, Will you on October 21st, will you give away all of your worldly possessions so that you won't need them anymore?  

**Mr. Camping:** Well you see, I get that asked all the time. I still have to live in a house. I still have to pay my bills. I still have to drive a car. And when Christ comes, whatever I have left, I'm going to leave behind. So why would I get rid of it? I still have to live until the end, and it's five months away now. So why would I give it all away? I don't understand that question.  

**Media:** What about on the day before, on the 20th? (Would you give all your possessions?) 

**Mr. Camping:** Well, what would be the value of that? Why would I give it away? Because if it's Judgment Day, it means that its the end of the world. And so whoever I gave it to, what could they do to it? (That doesn't follow; I just have no interest in that kind of a question). 

**36:24**{:.time} **Media:** Mr. Camping (Christian Host). You just said that the expiration is October 21st, right? Well, many people sold their property before May 21st. And so what can they do right now? They are flat broke? Is there any possibility to return any of that? 

**Mr. Camping:** Well, let me explain something. We in *Family Radio*, never tell anyone what they should do with their possessions. That's totally between them and God. And I get (people call me sometimes and said) questions, What should I do?

I said, "Please pray about this. I'm not going to give you any advice."

And it is true, that when people have given, one thing I notice is that, When a person has said (when they talked to one person who maybe has sold his possession maybe: And they then magnify that like everybody is doing that.

That isn't true at all. There are a few people that did, and undoubtedly. And there are people for example, I know a few of them, who have given up their jobs in order to work for *Family Radio* (give their time). And they do it because they love the Lord. And they are getting the spiritual blessing of it.

But that doesn't mean that everybody is doing that, not a bit.  

**37:54**{:.time} **Media:** Mr. Camping, you were very certain before the 21st of May. And you said that God had opened up your spiritual eyes. Yet, now this weekend, you say that you have learned a lot about the Bible (a lot that was hidden).

What is there to say that there is still a multitude learning about October?  

**Tom Evans:** He said that, You have said to people that God has opened (your eyes) to May 21. But now you're saying (And you were sure that May 21 was the day): But now you are saying that October 21 is the day. 

**Mr. Camping:** We have always said that October 21 was the day. That's not new: I'm not setting a new date at all. I'm only saying that we didn't understand altogether the spiritual meaning of what May 21 was.

May 21 was a day when Christ came and put the world under judgment. And absolutely, there is a big change in the world. They are under judgment, where they were not on May 20th. They are under judgment.

And that hasn't changed. It's only that we're seeing this as a spiritual thing happening, rather than a physical thing happening. But the timing, the structure, the proofs, the signs: None of that has changed at all, none (none at all).

And it's just amazing what God has shown us insofar as the proofs and the signs.  

**39:22**{:.time} **Media:** Mr. Camping, is it fair to the people who have committed to you, and they take your word as doctrine: For them to lead their lives in this way; and then take your apologies for misreading the Bible, and expectations that perhaps, the day will come later? Do you feel any personal responsibility for all of these people, for putting their hopes and their trust in you? 

**Mr. Camping:** You know, if you have listened at all to *Family Radio*, I have said it so many times. I am not the authority. The Bible is the authority.

Now, I know there are people who trust their teacher, because he has been (whoever their teacher might be, because they found that he was trustworthy in the past). That's the problem. But I can't change that. I can simply say, that very accurately again and again, I am not the authority. I will simply show you where to look in the Bible, in order to see this or to see that.

But all I am is a humble teacher. I search the Bible. I search the Bible. I listen. I read you a letter from one of our listeners. I happen to know this person. This person is not a theologian at all. And yet, I listened to it, because this person made some very good statements. In fact, I'm a little surprised how right those sound now.

Now, I'm not accepting it right down to the line. It's just something that we will be studying (and that others will be studying). We're trying to be very careful. But the structure of God's time line has not changed at all, not at all.  

**41:27**{:.time} **Media:** You have no recognition that there's a possibility that you are going to make still another mistake, and mislead other folks? 

**Mr. Camping:** Well, my life and the lives of many others is, we keep studying the Bible. And if we found that we made a mistake, immediately we are going to correct that (of course). We have not made a mistake insofar as the timeline, the unfolding.

We have not done our correct homework in understanding the nature of May 21. But the fact is there. It is not a Judgment Day that was visible. Its an invisible Judgment Day--it's a spiritual Judgment Day. But it is Judgment Day. The world is under judgment today: Just like the churches were first under judgment for a period of 2300 days. And then when the judgment on the world was lifted and God began to bring the Gospel again there (and people began to become saved): Their judgment stayed on the churches, and remain to this day.

It has not been lifted exactly. And that's why we see the terrible, terrible changes in the churches of our day. They are still under judgment.  

**42:42**{:.time} **Media:** Previous to the 21st of May, people have asked you about the spiritual Judgment Day (the spiritual earthquake). And you were very explicit at that time, explaining that. And you have been saying that.  

**Mr. Camping:** I can only tell you this, that I have been a full time volunteer for the whole duration.  

**Tom Evans:** You didn't understand his question. 

**Media:** Let me finish my question. Previous 

**Tom Evans:** Who's going to go first? Somebody's got to go first. 

**43:25**{:.time} **Media:** Excuse me, Mr. Camping, sorry to confuse things here. I wanted to ask, how much *Family Radio* as an organization has spent on publicizing May 21st as Judgment Day. I know that you had 104 million about in the past (That's in 2009). How much does it make? 

**Mr. Camping:** I don't know. I haven't kept track of that. I have just been very careful to watch that we still had enough money to pay our bills. And we still have been able to do that.

But you know, it was interesting that, somebody must have checked (or when our accounts made): And let me tell you something. Fifty-two years ago, when we organized *Family Radio*, there was no law anywhere that said we had to have a public accountant go over our books.

But right from the first year, we employed a certified public accounting firm to independently go over our books--every single year. And it cost us a lot of money to do this.

But because we have tried desperately always to be absolutely honest and accurate in all that we do. And we don't fudge anything at all. We have to be Non-Profits, so that we don't have to pay taxes. That helps to stretch the money.

But, it really amused me a little bit. I saw a news article, where they said, Oh, *Family Radio* took in 100 million dollars in the last seven years (Like, oh, well, they are just covered with cash. Look at, 100 million dollars.)

They fail to realize that it cost, that 100 million dollars, most of it was spent to send out the Gospel. That's why it comes to us. It's not for profit: It is to be used as efficiently as possible.

And you know, how many organizations reached the whole world with the Gospel like we do. Right now, we have been publishing in 75 different languages. And I'll tell you, they cost a lot of money.

And we spend every nickel that we can and still be able to have a good credit rating. We have a very excellent credit rating. We're not in the business for money. As I've said again and again, I'm a full time volunteer.

Man, if I would, in my position, doing the *Open Forum* five nights a week and being General Manager and President of *Family Radio*. If I were a typical organization, what salary should I be getting in every year?

Now tell me, how many. You look at what these public officials get and the CEO's of private companies and so on. And then multiply that by 50 years. And then how much money have I contributed?

I'm not saying this to brag or anything at all. I'm just to get a little bit reality in this business. This business is God's business. He is the CEO. I'm a servant of his. And I try to be as faithful as possible. I have given money or loaned money when ever I saw that it had a need. Whenever I loaned money (It was recording in one of the issues, that I had loaned $178,000. And the reason that we gave it is because, What if we would have an emergency? What if my wife suddenly got a severe disease (or I did). Where would we go for cash?

We could legitimately get cash from *Family Radio*, without having them pay it (just to return some of the money that we had put on deposit there). And so you, you can talk about money. And it's alien to me. I'm not interested in money.  

**47:38**{:.time} **Media:** Previously to the 21st of May, people have asked you about the spiritual earthquake. At that time, you were very explicit. You said that, It will not be spiritual. There is no chance whatsoever that it will be a spiritual earthquake. It will be, (there will be) definitely a literal earthquake.

How do you reconcile that with what you are saying now?  

**Mr. Camping:** When we study the Bible, we don't know everything. The Bible is very complex. I challenge any one of you. You start reading the book of Jeremiah, verse by verse (or any other book of the Bible, but take a book like Jeremiah).

And you start reading it. And read every word. And then try to decide, What is God saying? I don't know if any of you have ever tried that. But that is a very good lesson to test just what the Bible is.

And you'll find that you'll read verse after verse. And you'll wonder, What is God talking about?

And yet, this is the way that we have to search out the Bible. It is very slow and its very tedious. And yet, we have to do it. And we don't always hit the nail on the head the first time. But, we are a long ways towards the right.

We said that, the Judgment Day was going to be here. And it is here. But it's not physically at this time. It is spiritual. But Christ has come. It is Judgment Day. We have not been wrong about that at all.  

**49:29**{:.time} **Media:** We as mere humans are not really capable of really understanding the Bible. Is that what you are saying? 

**Mr. Camping:** You are correct. You know, I use the illustration (The Bible gives us wonderful illustrations). A lot of us have heard about the Apostle Paul. He wrote the letter to the Ephesians, to the Philippians, to the Colossians. He has written a whole lot of the material in the New Testament. And it was all dictated to him from God.

But, he was trained as a Pharisee. And he was a very intelligent Pharisee, highly schooled. The Bible claims that he was trained at the feet of Gamaliel and at one of the highest, great schools. And he was determined to serve God. Oh, he was determined to serve God.

And so yet, something was wrong. He was living there with people who had just heard about Christ. And many of the fellow Jews are looking at Christ as their Messiah. And Paul (at that time his name was Saul. His name was called Saul of Tarsus). And he was so determined, These people are false. They have got to be killed if they don't denounce their ways.

And he was going to Damascus to haul some of the Jews there in Damascus there, to put him on trial and to have them killed. And on the way to Damascus, God struck him down. And he was blinded. And he heard God speaking, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou Me? 

And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus: and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven: Acts 9:3, KJV. [verse added by transcriber] 

And then He said: 

> And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. Acts 9:5, KJV. [verse added by transcriber] 

And then He came into Damascus and he was there blind and praying and praying. Finally, Ananias, a preacher came over to minister to him. And while he's ministering to him, we read there that scales fell off his eyes: Because right after that, he was preaching Christ, Christ, Christ (in Damascus, almost instantly, because suddenly, his spiritual eyes were opened).

That's the problem. We not only have to study the Bible and study the Bible and study the Bible (comparing Scripture with Scripture). But we have to pray and hope and beg the Lord, Oh, open my spiritual eyes, that I might understand: Because the Bible is a Living Book. It is not an ordinary Book at all.  

**52:24**{:.time} **Media/Tom Evans:** How do you feel about this woman that took her own life? 

**Media:** She took her life and her two daughters lives.  

**Tom Evans:** She took her life and two members.  

**Mr. Camping:** That sounds like, There's a woman who killed her two children. Is that what you're talking about? 

**Media:** Yes. 

**Tom Evans:** Did she kill him or attempted to. She did not kill her children.  

**Mr. Camping:** Oh, she attempted to. Oh, ok. Oh my, that makes me feel better, because death is, murdering is terrible. It is contrary to everything the Bible teaches. That would have been a horrible thing, if she had done that. That would make me weep. That would fill me with sorrow, that she would do that.

The Bible teaches that we are to save lives, not kill. If there's going to be death, leave it to God. God knows Who He wants to kill and to make alive. That's His business, not our business.

And so, I'll tell you, what you just told me, is a great relief to me, because I would be sick at heart if someone had done such a stupid thing.  

**53:42**{:.time} **Media:** Do you take any responsibility for that? 

**Tom Evans:** Do you take any responsibility for that fact? 

**Mr. Camping:** I don't have any responsibility. I can't be responsible for anybodys life. I am only teaching the Bible. I'm not teaching what I believe or that I'm the authority. I'm simply telling, This is what the Bible says.

And I don't have spiritual rule over anybody, except my wife (because as the head of the house, I have spiritual rule over my wife a little bit: Not a whole lot, but she's a wonderful wife, so it doesn't require much).

But the fact is, like in a church, the elders and the deacons and the pastor: They have the spiritual oversight of the members of the church. God ordained that. But the fact is that in *Family Radio*, we have the spiritual rule over nobody.

We don't have the spiritual rule over our staff here. We have people who agree with what we are teaching. We have people who don't agree. We don't have any spiritual rule. All we're doing is teaching the Bible. And that Bible has the spiritual rule, not what we say.  

**55:07**{:.time} **Media:** You have not actually apologized publicly, have you? Are you prepared to? 
**Mr. Camping:** Hold on, we have to pause for a moment.  

**[ Break for station identification and announcements ]**

**Mr. Camping:** Now, what is your question? 

**55:20**{:.time} **Media:** Mr. Camping, you admit that the Bible is very complex and difficult to interpret, and that you made mistakes; and that what happened on Saturday was spiritual, and not physical (even though you guaranteed that it would be physical). How can you now in good conscious tell your followers that the world will end in October, when you have made a mistaken in interpreting the Bible already? 

**Mr. Camping:** I have never, never told anybody that I'm infallible, not at all. But God's proofs are infallible, because they come right out of the Bible. The signs that He has given, like Gay Pride is an evidence that we're on the threshold of Judgment; or the fantastic increase in wickedness and so on. All of that is, they are signs that God gives and that is very trustworthy.

But what I say is that, I'm not infallible. That's why I again and again: In a way, I'm kind of smiling. I've been in churches all my life. I have never heard a pastor (This may sound strange like I'm picking on it, I'm not). I have many pastors who are friends.

But, I have never heard a pastor from the pulpit ever say, You know, I used to teach this. And no, no, that's not true. (Dr. Spencer did tell me, and he's dead now, so I can talk about him. He was a friend, and we used him in *Family Radio* for years. We still use him, because oh my, the Lord had really laid His hand on him).

But except for Dr. Spencer, I have never heard a pastor ever say, I was mistaken when I taught you last year. And now I've done a lot more study in the Bible. And God has opened my eyes. And now I want to teach you this.

Now, there may be some (But I haven't heard of them). And yet, there isn't any student of the Bible that can say, Do you know, that I have never made a mistake (Or, I only remember one mistake.)

If we're learning, of course, we're going to teach as God opens our eyes. And then later on we may say, Oh, my, I said that back then and it wasn't correct.

And if you listen to *Family Radio*, you'll find me saying again and again, I used to teach this and now I know it was wrong.

And I don't hesitate, because my ego's not at stake. What difference does it make? I have to be honest, that's all. I'm trying to be honest with the Bible. I'm honest with those who are listening to me.  

**58:08**{:.time} **Media:** You have not publicly apologized are you prepared to do that at all? 

**Mr. Camping:** What was that question? 

**Media:** Are you willing to publicly apologize for what you said about the character of May 21--for your mistake?

**Mr. Camping:** If people want me to apologize, I can apologize, yes. I did not have all of that worked out as accurately as I should have, or as I wished I could have had it. That doesn't bother me at all, because I'm not a genius. I pray all the time for wisdom. And when I make an error, then I say, Yes, I was wrong.

I have said that already, more than several times tonight. I was wrong. It was to be understood spiritually, not physically. Yet, the sense of it is still the same, that judgment has come. The world is now under judgment, where it was not prior to May 21.

Spiritually, there is a difference in the world, that we can't detect at all with our eyes, but we can know from the Bible.  

**59:27**{:.time} **Media:** Why did you think that there is so much international attention from the media. Why are there so many people here right now? 

**Mr. Camping:** Well, I know this. God has commanded us to go all into the world and warn the world of Judgment Day. We in *Family Radio*, and other organizations that are normally much smaller than *Family Radio* (other people don't have as large of a pulpit as we have or have been able to do as much as we have, but): Together, with what we have done, we have done a fairly good job.

But God has to do the perfect job. And so, He utilizes the media to fill in the gaps where we haven't done it. I can tell you, from one stand point, I thank God for the media. Because of all your interest and concerns and there have been articles in newspapers and in the Internet and television and so on. And between what you have done (as well as what we have done): The world really knows that we're there.

There's another factor in this, of course. And that is, man was created in the image of God (The Bible teaches that), every one of us. You would never think about it, but you are. We're all created in the image of God intuitively: Whether we try to be an atheist or an evolutionist, or an agnostic or this denomination or that denomination (It makes no difference).

We all know deep in their heart, in our hearts, we have to some day answer to God. There's finally a final reckoning, because we all know there's such a thing as sin. We can argue that, Oh, not me, not me. I've never sinned.

We're lying to ourselves. We all know that. We all know that murder is sin. We all know that lying is sin. We all know that sexual immorality is sin. We really know that. We can try to talk around it, but we really know that.

And we also intuitively know that there is a God. All that you have to do is start, oh man, It really is amazing how man talks about this world developing over billions of years through adaptation.

When I think of the millions of life forms, as complicated as they are: And no evolution has ever been able to show the evolution of a fly, or the evolution of a slug, or the evolution of a tiger or of anything else. It's pathetic.

And every one of you have a fancy camera (really fancy camera). And what happened was that somebody threw some pieces of metal out there about a million years ago. And then slowly through the years, that adapted itself, until finally, you were out there one day, and you picked up that beautiful camera, that some how came into existence some how all by itself.

And you're saying, You're nutty man. You're crazy.

Yes, its crazy idea. How did that camera come into existence? How did that cell phone come into existence? Somebody designed it. Somebody fabricated it and tested it and so on. It's all done by activity by people.

And the same way, we're created in the image of God. How did that fly come into existence, or that whale, or that tiger or whatever? God designed it. He's God. And all He has to do is speak. And there He is, because He is God.

But nevertheless, it had to require a Maker, and Who cares for this world and it keeps going? God. 

**1:22:42**{:.time} **Media:** How much money did Family Radio raise as a result of this campaign before May 21?  

**Mr. Camping:** I really don't know. We have had two sources of income. We've had the gifts from our listeners. And we try to get as much mileage as we can, because they're not giving it really to *Family Radio*--they're giving it because of their desire to giving the Gospel as every believer is commanded to do.

And we are simply emphasizing that we can do this more efficiently. We can get way more mileage out of the dollar with our radio stations and so on, and in the way that we are doing that, that we never could for ourselves.  

**Media:** Sir, do you intend to return that money now? 

**Mr. Camping:** No, that money is still going out. We still are continuing in the business. We are not at the end. Why would we return it? We are not out of business. We've learned now that we still have to go another five months.  

**Media:** Do you intend to return the money in October? 

**Mr. Camping:** Well, why would we return it? It's been given in order to get the Gospel out. People always come back with money, money. It was given to get the Gospel out. And we're spending it as wisely as possible. And maybe by October 21, we might only have $10.00 left.  

**1:05:40**{:.time} **Media:** Will you dissolve *Family Radio* on October 21? 

**Mr. Camping:** If its the end of the world, God is going to dissolve it. I'm not the CEO. Haven't you heard me say that again and again? I am not the CEO. I'm a servant of God working here, and God is the CEO. We look to Him all the time for guidance. And He is the One Who opens doors--I can tell many stories of marvelous open doors that God has given. And I often think, Who are we? Who am I?

I'm just an ordinary human being. I've had a little college education. But then I look at *Family Radio*, and we're broadcasting all over the world in 75 different languages. And how did all this happen? How did this happen?

And we have had a 300,000 kilowatt AM station in Taiwan, broadcasting to Mainland China. The largest station--AM Station in the United States is 50 Kilowatts. We have a 300 Kilowatt that we broadcast on. We have a 600 Kilowatt that we worked out in cooperation with the Taiwan broadcasting people that broadcast to Indonesia and to the Philippines.

How did all of that happen? Who are we? We're nothing. We're nothing. But God opens the door here. And He provides an individual there, when we need them. And from time to time, as we see an opportunity, as we are trying to magnify or make as much hay as we can with everything that we're doing.

And if we see a possibility say of selling this station and buying this one (and reach more people and come out with some cash in the meanwhile): Well, we've done that from time to time.  And that also goes into the hopper. It didn't come from the listeners at all, not at all, none of it. But it's all going out for the same purpose, to get the Gospel out. 

We wrote in our articles of incorporation when we first started, that if we ever sold a station at a low profit, no member of the Board of Directors could ever get five cents for themselves. Not one of us have ever gained a chunk of money out of *Family Radio*.

Every nickel has been spent as fairly as possibly, as efficiently as possible. And all you have to do is to look at the records of whats happening in the business world or in the political world, or school world (I don't care where you look). And everybody is out this way all the time. All they are looking at is greed, greed, greed.

And you don't see that in *Family Radio* at all. In fact, as I as President, if I ever saw anybody that was beginning to get a little greedy, I'll tell you, they were dealt with immediately: Because we don't do that. We just don't do that. We're in the business of serving the Lord, not of garnering anything for ourselves.  

**1:09:23**{:.time} **Media:** Who are the true believers (What kind of people) will ascend in the Rapture? And will everybody else be left behind (of other religions, like Jews or Hindus or Muslims, or anybody else). 

**Mr. Camping:** There is only one kind of people that will ascend into Heaven and that has nothing to do with any religion. They can be a Hindu, they can be a Buddhist, they can be a Muslim, or whatever. If God has saved them, they are going to be caught up.

In fact, its interesting (This is very significant). In the Bible, again and again, when it talks about the end of the world, it says, The last shall be first and the first shall be last. (That's repeated several times).  

> So the last shall be first, and the first last: for many be called, but few chosen. Matthew 20:16, KJV. [verse added by transcriber] 

And that has some very important spiritual significance, because the last are those who can know the least about the Bible (Who have probably never heard the Bible before, until they got the message through the media and through *Family Radio* activity, that May 21 is Judgment Day).

And that came from the Bible. And so they have heard the Word of God. And if God has in fact decided to save them (and God knows whom He is going to save): They don't have to know all about the Bible. They don't have to know about all the things that we learn in the Scriptures. They just have to know, God has spoken, and oh, Oh God, have mercy have me. Oh may God have mercy on me. 

> And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. Luke 18:13, KJV. [verse added by transcriber] 

And that can be anyone at all. And in fact, those who are the first, they are the ones who have had the Bibles all their years. And they don't have an understanding of the truth of the Bible. They have their own understanding.

Have you ever wondered--just think about this for a moment: There are many, many denominations. And every one, if you happen to be a Roman Catholic, you are convinced, This is the best church in the world.

If you are a Presbyterian, This is the best church in the world.

If you are Seventh Day Adventist, This is the best church in the world.

That is, everyone belongs to the denomination that they belong to, because they believe that, that is the best. If you sit down, and read their understanding (The Roman Catholics have their understanding of the Christian religion, the Methodists have theirs; the Presbyterian has theirs; the Mormons have theirs and so on.)

And you'll find that not any two of them are in agreement. They all have all kinds of different conclusions. Yet they all claim, they all came from the Bible. And so what does that tell you? That most any one of them could have had it accurate, because God doesn't talk out of both sides of His Mouth.

It just shows that, what the churches call their Christian religion, isn't necessarily from the Bible. Maybe it started. But their theologians have twisted it a little bit here and there to make it satisfactory to what they wanted to believe. And so they ended up with an entirely different Christian religion (or a substantially different than all of the other denominations).  

And so it tells you that, that's why in *Family Radio*, if you have listened at all, what do we emphasize? The church says this? (Or, The Church says that?). 

No way. We say, The Bible, the Bible, the Bible. It all comes from the Bible, and only the Bible.

And we just have to keep studying the Bible, and knowing that every word in the original language came from the Mouth of God.  

**1:13:44**{:.time} **Media:** You just spoke about how powerful and influential *Family Radio* has become. So you do have some responsibility. And so my question is, what advice do you give those followers, who took you literally and spent everything they have (and they're worried about how they are going to survive between now and October 21st).

**Mr. Camping:** You know, the fact is, that just as I'm talking very candidly to you, also, we're on the radio right now. There are probably more people listening to the *Open Forum* tonight than there have ever been, because we have had so much publicity about *Family Radio*. And we've told them ahead of time, that we're going to have this kind of a meeting here this evening. And so they are all hearing exactly what you're hearing.  

**Media:** Nonetheless, they did take you literally and gave away all their money (They donated it to *Family Radio*, and now may not have the funds to survive between now and October 21).

What if I send in your loyal followers who have given up everything they have?  

**Mr. Camping:** I am not advising (Please understand): We don't advise anybody what to do ... we're not in the business of financial advice.

**Media:** It's not that you told them what to do. It has to do with that Saturday they gave up all of their worldly possessions and their money, and now you have a different interpretation that focuses on spiritual. So what do you tell those followers, who did not understand that? 

**Mr. Camping:** Let me answer it this way. We just had a great recession. There are lots of people that lost their jobs. There are lots of people that lost their houses, lots of people (not just a few, but lots of people). Lots of people had this or that.  And some how, they all survived. They all had, maybe a cousin helped them or a brother or sister, or the city helped them; or maybe they had to cut their living expenses way, way down. In some cases, it was really very severe).

But I'll tell you, what has happened to the average person faithfully listening to *Family Radio*, isnt nearly as grievous as has happened to countless people in this present recession, where theyve lost their homes and so on and so on. So please, please, people cope.

And we're not in the business of giving any financial advise. We're in the business of telling people, Look, there's someone you can talk to that can maybe guide you, maybe help you. Ask God. Come boldly to the throne of grace. Pray without ceasing. 

> Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need. Hebrews 4:16, KJV.

> Pray without ceasing. 1 Thessalonians 5:17, KJV. [verses added by transcriber] 

It's wonderful. It's wonderful when we get to a point in our lives, a lot of times the best times of our lives, is when our backs are against the wall (and we don't know where to go, what to do). So finally, you're pleading with God, and pleading with God, Oh God, have mercy, have mercy. I don't know what to do.

And that can be just the time when you're really being drawn to God, like you've never been. Believe you me, God is very real. And I can personally testify, I've had many times in my life when I didn't know what to do next. And yet, I pleaded and talked with God and prayed and prayed. And the next thing is, I would see a little door open here (or a little door open there) that they never expected.  

**1:17:47**{:.time} **Media:** I agree with you. So, I think that what you have to be self-reliant, and not rely on someone else's information. It may be incorrect, and they should just throw it and trust themselves perhaps? Is that the advice you're making? 

**Mr. Camping:** Well no, that's the point of prayer. You don't rely on your own understanding. That's the point of prayer. You're relying on God to help you. Now look, I'm praying to God. I don't have a job. So, I'm lying in bed, Please Lord, oh have mercy. I need a job. I need a job. Lord, have mercy, I need a job. I've got a family to support.

But boy, this bed is comfortable. I don't want to get out of this bed. You know, that's pure hypocrisy. We don't go to the Lord like that. We go to the Lord saying, Oh Lord, I'm searching. Have mercy. Is it possible that as I search and as I do this or that, that maybe there is a solution. And maybe God wants me to sweat for awhile. 

**1:22:42**{:.time} **Media:** Is it safe to say that the main population that heard about May 21st didn't believe it. It didn't happen that way. They said, This is ridiculous, and at best a misguided prediction; or worse, some kind of scam. Does it worry you that you have hurt the credibility or created mockery in some way of religion? 

**Mr. Camping:** Oh no, excuse me. Just like what I have said before, there's no pastor in the world (or, that's not the right statement). Most pastors would never admit they make a mistake, because they're trying to preserve their own credibility in the eyes of those who are listening (Or maybe they insist, they are preserving the credibility of the Bible).

But the fact is, that they're not--they're not. And all I can do is to go to the Bible, and very humbly say, Look, I have done some more study (Or, somebody has sent me an idea about this verse and I've checked it out). And I find that I have to make a change in it.

That doesn't hurt the credibility of the Bible at all. It just shows us that we have feet of clay, that we're not perfect. And God has to keep opening our eyes. And you know, God says again and again, He resists the proud, and He gives grace to the humble.  

> Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility: for God resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble. 1 Peter 5:5, KJV. [verse added by transcriber] 

There is verse after verse in the Bible, where God really resists who come in their pride. And there's one thing that should be seen in everyone who claims to be a child of God, is humility: I'm nothing. Whatever I know, or whatever I'm doing, I have to credit God altogether.

I pray again and again. There's a verse in Philippians 2, where it says, Work out your own Salvation: 

> Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Philippians 2:12, KJV. [verse added by transcriber] 

And that is the Salvation that God has provided it. You work it out, and then it says, For it is God, Who causes you to will and to do of His good pleasure. 

> For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Philippians 2:13, KJV. [verse added by transcriber] 

So, even when we do something well done, we say, Oh Lord, I thank You that You guided me this way. I'm nothing. I'm nothing.

And I'll tell you, I can recommend this to anybody. It's a wonderful way we can live, when we walk humbly before God: Because you're never trying to show how smart you are, or how wise you are. You are simply giving all of the credit to God, and that is where it should it go.  

**Media:** Then, why not stop predicting the end?  

**Mr. Camping:** My dear friend, I'm sorry that we are at the end of our time. And I can't entertain any more questions.

I thank you for being so kind to me. You haven't asked me any embarrassing questions at all (if you thought you could find one). I've been grateful for all of your questions. And I just hope that you are faithful in reporting honestly, altogether honestly. If you could even do that favor for me, I would be very happy. 

Good night. 
