---
title: Closing of the Time and Judgment Discussion Group
slug: closing-of-the-time-and-judgment-discussion-group
kind: article
speaker: Chris McCann
created_at: "2012-03-10 15:09"
---
Sadly, it is time for the [Time and Judgment, May 21, 2011](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/TimeandJudgment_May212011/) 
Yahoo discussion group to close. *EBible Fellowship* has sponsored this group for the last 
couple of years in order to provide a place of discussion on end time topics. At this point, 
*EBible Fellowship* has no answers to some very important questions concerning the end 
times. However, may I also point out that neither do others. I'm sure many think they do, 
and our eager to share their understandings concerning where we are and what is going on 
regarding, "time and judgment"; but I've heard nothing from these sources that are very 
solid at all. Actually, one additional reason we will be shutting down this group is to 
avoid it becoming a place for other people's speculations. 

I would like to thank the moderators that have worked in helping things go smoothly in 
this group over the last two years, and especially for those that recently took this task 
upon themselves and helped out during these most difficult of days.

I would also like to thank individuals that have posted wonderful encouragements to people 
with many helpful Scriptures and insights into the Scriptures during these last couple of 
years. 

Thank you all for your participation in this group through reading the posts. 

May the Lord grant us His Wisdom,\\
Chris

P.S. We will keep the group open for a short time to allow anyone interested to say their 
goodbyes.

