---
title: October 8th
speaker: Chris McCann
created_at: 2015-10-08 12:00
kind: article
description: 'A response to being incorrect with the prediction that, "in all likelihood, 
the world would end on October 7<sup>th</sup>."'
---
Dear friends, 

For some time now E Bible Fellowship (and myself) have been looking towards 
October 7<sup>th</sup> as the likely end of the world. We believed there was a strong 
likelihood that God would complete His judgment and bring about the world's 
destruction on that day. There was much biblical information pointing to this 
date and we freely shared it with all. Yet, consistently stressing throughout the 
entire time period that the world ending on that date was a "strong likelihood."
Since it is now October 8<sup>th</sup> it is now obvious that we were incorrect regarding the 
world's ending on the 7<sup>th</sup>. 

## The World's Continuation Is Not a Justification of the World

It should be noted that the world "not" being destroyed on the 7<sup>th</sup> is in no way 
some sort of divine justification of the world. According to the Word of God the 
sentence upon the world has been passed (it is guilty) and the world will certainly 
pass away as detailed in numerous places in the Bible. E Bible Fellowship was 
incorrect regarding the specific day of its end, but we were not incorrect 
concerning the fact that it will one day soon come to an end. 

The world today is populated by a generation of people that has outdone all past 
generations for wickedness. It tends to view a "passed date" for its end as some 
sort of victory and celebrates it as though it means it will now never end. And yet, 
the truth is that the world is in its death throes. A date of destruction given to the 
world (like October 7<sup>th</sup>, 2015) is like a man with a terminal disease that was given 
a short time to live his Dr. The man passes the 6 months (or year) he was told. Yet 
the prognosis hasn't changed. He's still terminally ill. It's still certain he will die 
from his disease. It's just a matter of when that remains in question. 

1 John 2: 

> 15 Love not the world, neither the things *that are* in the world. If any man love 
the world, the love of the Father is not in him.\\
16 For all that *is* in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and 
the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world.\\
17 And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof: but he that doeth the will of 
God abideth for ever.
{:.verse}

## Did We Lie?

No. The fact is that we consistently told people that October 7<sup>th</sup>, 2015 (being the 
end of the world) was a strong likelihood. And according to the good amount of 
biblical evidence at our disposal it was. Therefore saying it was a "strong 
likelihood" was a true statement. We also openly acknowledged that there was a 
small likelihood that it would not happen. There was no lie or deceitfulness 
involved in any way. 

## The Church's Opinion of E Bible Fellowship

The church's opinion of no significance to us. The fact is that the Bible teaches 
that God has already judged the churches of the world (all of them) for their 
constant unfaithfulness towards the Word of God. God's end time program of 
judgment started with the churches. 

> 1 Peter 4:17 For the time is *come* that judgment must begin at the house of God:
{:.verse}

The Bible teaches that the church age is over. And the churches of the world are 
all operating without the presence of the Holy Spirit. The numerous doctrinal 
errors of all the world's churches prove the condition of their spiritual darkness. 
Therefore E Bible Fellowship is completely unconcerned with how any church or 
its members perceive us. 

## The World's Opinion of E Bible Fellowship

The world today operates in open rebellion against the Word of God on numerous 
points. It denies the Bible's creation account (through the erroneous and 
ridiculous theory of evolution) and so it is no surprise that is also denies the 
possibility of the One that created the world also being the One that destroys it. 
Therefore any sort of serious presentation from the Bible of an "end of the world" 
event is met with much reviling and mocking. To the people of the world the idea 
of the Bible forecasting its end is ludicrous, and those sharing this kind of news 
are "crazy" themselves. 

Perhaps the world's opinion of the elect child of God's mental health might mean 
something if the world conducted itself and its affairs with any sense of "sanity." 
But it has not and does not. The world with its constant and incredibly increasing 
evil deeds demonstrates on a daily basis that it (and its inhabitants) know 
nothing of true soundness of mind. 

> Ecclesiastes 9:3 ... yea, also the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and 
madness *is* in their heart while they live, and after that *they go* to the dead. 
{:.verse}

## Plan B (what will E Bible Fellowship do next?)

Some times people ask: what's your back up plan? What are you going to do now 
that the world did not end on October 7<sup>th</sup>? 

Our answer has always been: we intend to keep reading and studying the Bible! 
Going back to the Word of God seeking truth is plan b, c, d, e, and every other 
option as well. 

## To Live Is Christ

God's elect people would prefer to be with Christ (which the Bible says is far 
better), and yet we are also quite content to continue living in this world knowing 
that all the while we are here we are to "live for Christ." The children of God are 
extremely tough minded individuals that by God's grace will continue to live for 
His glory according to His perfect will in the midst of a crooked and perverse 
generation: 

> Deuteronomy 32:3 Because I will publish the name of the LORD: ascribe ye 
greatness unto our God.\\
4 *He is* the Rock, his work *is* perfect: for all his ways *are* judgment: a God of truth 
and without iniquity, just and right is he.\\
5 They have corrupted themselves, their spot is not *the spot* of his children: *they 
are* a perverse and crooked generation.
{:.verse}
