---
title: Did God Lie to Adam and Eve? Part 1
slug: did-god-lie-to-adam-and-eve
series: did-god-lie-to-adam-and-eve
speaker: Chris McCann
created_at: "2011-06-02 12:38"
---
Of course the world scoffs at the idea that May 21st was a "spiritual" judgment
upon them. Why would we expect them not to? Isn't the world in spiritual
darkness? Yes, of course the Bible does tell us that the whole world lieth in
darkness; and as a result of a judgment placed upon them a long time ago it
cannot see spiritual things.

Let's take a look at the very first judgment God brought upon mankind due to his
sin.

Genesis 3:2-4 And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of 
the trees of the garden: (3) But of the fruit of the tree which is in the 
midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall 
ye touch it, lest ye die. (4) And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall 
not surely die:
{:.verse}

Here we find the stage is set. God clearly lays out the law to Adam and Eve. 
The Lord has told them that if they eat of the fruit of that one particular 
tree--they will die!

Did God tell them they would die spiritually? We don't find the Lord saying
that at all. In Genesis, chapter 2 it says:

Genesis 2:16-17 And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree 
of the garden thou mayest freely eat: (17) But of the tree of the knowledge 
of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest 
thereof thou shalt surely die.
{:.verse}

There is no hint of spiritual death in the Lord's statement to Adam and Eve. He
simply declared that if you go against My law regarding this tree, in THAT DAY
you will die.

Did Adam and Eve die in the same day they ate of the tree? The answer is yes
and no. Yes they died spiritually; but no they did not die physically.
Physical death would come eventually to them--but THEY DID NOT DIE PHYSICALLY
the day they ate of the forbidden tree.

Of course this fact has everything to do with our present day and the
proclamation to the world regarding May 21 being Judgment Day!

