---
title: God's Purpose for 153 Days, Part 3
slug: gods-purpose-for-153-days-part-3
series: gods-purpose-for-153-days
speaker: Chris McCann
created_at: "2011-05-31 08:27"
---
May 21 has come and gone. Why are the children of God still here? what 
could possibly be the purpose of God in NOT taking His people out of this 
world as we had thought He would? 

There may be several reasons (humbling us further, while also setting the 
stage in a far greater way for the ultimate destruction of the unsaved of 
the world, etc.) But certainly one big reason is outlined in John 21:15-17:

(15) So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of 
Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou 
knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. (16) He saith 
to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?  He 
saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto 
him, Feed my sheep. (17) He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of 
Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third 
time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; 
thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep. 
{:.verse}

In the above passage, three times Jesus asks Peter "lovest thou Me?" And 
Peter also responds three times: "Yea, Lord; Thou knowest that I love Thee."
Is it coincidence that we find the number three strongly emphasized once 
again? Is it accidental that the great catch of fish totals 153 (3 x 3 x 17)? 
That Jesus is showing Himself to the disciples for the 3rd time. And, that 
following the safe bringing in of this huge catch of fish--we find Christ 
focusing on the feeding of sheep? Three times He asks Peter. Three times 
Peter replies. 

On May 21,

* we know that the Great Tribulation ended (Revelation 7 indicates 
the "great multitude" came out of Great Tribulation). The catch of fish was 
brought in. 

* we know that the Latter Rain ended. The harvest was completed. 
And the precious fruit of the earth (God's elect) are all safe and secure 
in Him. 

* the door was shut (17th day of the 2nd month). Christ, is the 
only Door to heaven. 

What's left for God's people to do? What the Bible is indicating in John 
21 is for the people of God to continue to occupy by feeding the sheep 
that have now become saved. This is one of the major purposes the Lord has 
for His people at this time.

