---
title: God's Purpose for 153 Days, Part 1
slug: gods-purpose-for-153-days
series: gods-purpose-for-153-days
speaker: Chris McCann
created_at: "2011-05-31 08:25"
---
As many of you are aware the five months period between May 21st and October 
21st is 153 days. We find this number in the 4th gospel (John), chapter 
21:6-11:

(6) And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and 
ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it 
for the multitude of fishes. (7) Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved 
saith unto Peter, It is the Lord. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was 
the Lord, he girt his fisher's coat unto him, (for he was naked,) and did 
cast himself into the sea. (8) And the other disciples came in a little 
ship; (for they were not far from land, but as it were two hundred cubits,) 
dragging the net with fishes. (9) As soon then as they were come to land, 
they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon, and bread. (10) 
Jesus saith unto them, Bring of the fish which ye have now caught. (11) 
Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land full of great fishes, an 
hundred and fifty and three: and for all there were so many, yet was not 
the net broken. 
{:.verse}

The 153 fish is described as "the multitude of fishes." We've known for 
some time that this passage relates to the period of Great Tribulation 
that just finished on May 21st of 2011. These fish represented the "great 
multitude" that came out of Great Tribulation (see Revelation 7:9-14). 

The number 153 breaks down into 9 x 17 or 3 x 3 x 17. The number three 
indicates it is God's purpose (a biblical number is assigned meaning 
depending on how God uses it in the Bible). In this case, the number three 
is doubled indicating an even stronger emphasis upon the purpose of God 
concerning this great catch of fish (in other places the Lord makes sure 
we're aware that fish typify men--for instance, Jesus told the disciples, 
"Behold, I will make you fishers of men").

