---
title: Did God Lie to Adam and Eve? Part 4
slug: did-god-lie-to-adam-and-eve-part-4
series: did-god-lie-to-adam-and-eve
speaker: Chris McCann
created_at: "2011-06-02 12:44"
---
Why did the Lord's people declare Judgment Day would be May 21? The answer is
because we found this information in the Bible; and the Bible is the Word of
God. It is God speaking to us every time we read the Bible. We found accurate
time information pointing to May 21 (which hasn't changed at all) as being
Judgment Day! And therefore we spread this news to the world.

Some have said we lied. But no, we did not. May 21, 2011 was *truly* Judgment
Day! But, however, it was not a physical Judgment Day, but a spiritual one. A
spiritual judgment is not a little thing. All we have to do is read the tragic
story of Adam and Eve and the judgment that God pronounced upon them due to
their sins and we find that a spiritual judgment is most awful. Likewise, God's
judgment upon the world on May 21 is enormous in its consequences towards
mankind. The physical aspects of this Judgment Day develop 5 months from now.

With Adam and Eve we have a tremendous precedent set that helps us understand 
a few things:

1. Spiritual judgments are REAL judgments and not a little thing.

1. God did not spell out to the first couple exactly what He meant by dying in
that day. We do not read anywhere that God would bring a spiritual judgment.

1. The Lord allowed Satan to "appear" (outwardly) correct in his statement 
that "ye shall not surely die." Even thou he was not correct and Adam and
Eve did die spiritually in that day.

1. Spiritual judgment came immediately, physical judgment came later.

