---
title: Did God Lie to Adam and Eve? Part 5
slug: did-god-lie-to-adam-and-eve-part-5
series: did-god-lie-to-adam-and-eve
speaker: Chris McCann
created_at: "2011-06-02 14:56"
---
After Eve (and then Adam) ate of the fruit of the forbidden tree did they 
die in that day as God had said? 

The answer is yes, they died spiritually! But, did Adam and Eve know they 
died spiritually that day? When God saves someone there is no physical 
difference with that person from one moment (unsaved) to the next moment 
(saved). No one can discern an exact time when they became saved. The 
reason for this is because we cannot see spiritual things like this. 

Therefore after eating of the fruit it could very well have been that Adam 
and Eve did not know they had died at all. It may even have appeared as 
though the serpent was correct. Yes, to all outward appearances nothing at
all happened (in the way of punishment) as a result of eating of that tree. 

And yet, we know today that the Lord had fulfilled His word and brought to 
pass a most terrible judgment--Adam and Eve were killed in their spiritual 
natures that very day. They became dead spiritually (Ephesians 2:1). 

We now realize that May 21 was a "spiritual judgment." This means nothing 
to the world because they cannot see spiritually. Because of this it is as 
though nothing happened (at all) to the world.

But, however, once we look at all of the horrible consequences that came 
from that initial act of disobedience, it is impossible for us to think 
lightly of a "spiritual judgment." That spiritual judgment back in the 
garden has brought untold amounts of grief and despair to mankind. A 
"spiritual judgment" is not a light thing. The true historical example in 
the Garden of Eden demonstrates to us that a "spiritual judgment" is 
extremely grievous. 

Did God lie to Adam and Eve regarding His statement that, "for in the day 
that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die?" No! He did not lie. He 
also did not tell them the entire story. It is the Lord's prerogative to 
do that if He wishes. 

Did the Lord lie to His people when He opened up the Scriptures and clearly
showed that May 21, 2011 would be the Day of Judgment? No, He did not lie! 
But (for His own purposes) He also did not reveal to us all the information.

