---
title: The Spiritual Judgment God Brought Upon the Churches Parallels the Spiritual Judgment the Lord has Brought Upon the World
created_at: "2012.02.29 13:36"
kind: article
slug: spiritual-judgment-on-churches-parallels-the-world
speaker: Chris McCann
description: |
  The spiritual nature of God's judgment upon the churches is contrasted to that of the
  judgment on the world and how this can only be seen with eyes of faith.
---
God revealed that the churches were under judgment. The judgment God brought upon them was a 
"spiritual judgment." The language of the Bible was horrible, "woe unto them that give suck in 
those days," "not one stone left upon another," "a famine in the land," "a desolate wilderness,"
were all ways God used to describe this judgment upon the churches and congregations of the 
world. Believers, understanding that Christ spoke in parables warned those in the churches to 
get out before it was too late. The people in the churches looked around and saw nothing had 
changed from the many years before. Their church wasn't desolate. They were enjoying the 
ministry like always. Certainly their church building was not brought down to the ground. 
Not only were all the stones in place, but they had managed to add an extra building recently. 

Those of us outside of the churches told them that they were under judgment, and, that that 
judgment was completely spiritual in nature. And they not given eyes to see thought it was 
ridiculous. They could not see the Holy Spirit depart. They could not see Satan enter in. 
They could not see that God was no longer saving in their midst for the 23 years of the 
great tribulation. They mocked. They scorned. They said we had a gospel of the devil. All 
because we said the Bible reveals a spiritual judgment, upon the churches during the time 
of the great tribulation, and all because they could not see it with their naked eye.

The judgment on the churches was the test for the congregations. We realized this. And if 
they did not depart out before the period of great tribulation ended, oh, how tragic it 
would be for them. We realized God was testing them before He would bring the judgment upon 
the world. Jeremiah 25 told us that God would first give the cup to Judah to drink, and then 
all the nations of the world would likewise drink. This is exactly what God has done. 

Some of those outside of the churches recognize the fact that a spiritual judgment came upon 
the churches; but now are faced with the same idea of a spiritual judgment coming upon the 
world outside of the churches and mock. 

The Lord has brought about a time of testing for all of us outside of the congregations 
(now numbering a great multitude). And what is the test? Why it is a spiritual judgment. 
On May 21 God brought judgment upon the world. The language of the Bible was horrible: 
a great earthquake. Desolation everywhere. Dead bodies coming out of the tombs and littering 
the earth. We made a mistake of thinking this would be literal. But it wasn't. God has given 
us an identical test as He gave the churches. And an identical judgment. A spiritual judgment 
is upon us God's people share with the world. What is the reaction? Right. Sure it is. 
Mocking. Scorning. And disbelief. The very same reaction of those in the churches when they 
were informed that the judgment of God was upon them. 

Why such a reaction from people, who themselves were intimately involved with warning others 
(those in the churches) of a very real judgment upon the congregations? How could those that 
shook their head in sorrow at people in the churches, because they just couldn't see the 
truths of the Bible concerning the judgment of God beginning at the house of God, how could 
they so easily, and so quickly dismiss the idea of a spiritual judgment day? Especially when 
there was much biblical evidence to prove it? And what is the nature of the judgment upon 
the world? God has shut the door. That was proclaimed to all the earth prior to May 21. 

May 21's underlying Hebrew date was the 17th day of the 2nd month. This was the equivalent 
date 7000 years earlier to when the flood began and God shut the door to the ark (note: 
God shut the door to the ark, not Noah. Just like God has shut the door to heaven, not His 
people). What is the significance of the shutting of the door? Christ said in John 10, 
"I Am the Door". This and many other Scriptures show us that God shut the door of salvation 
on this world. 

This is the horrible nature of Judgment Day. And, it is a judgment that 
cannot be seen with the human eye. But can only be seen with the eyes of faith. Exactly 
parallel to the judgment brought to pass on the churches that also had to be seen with eyes 
of faith. Eyes of understanding in the Word of God. The same judgment brought to bare upon 
the churches (the removal of salvation from their midst); is the identical judgment brought 
to pass now upon the world (no more salvation for mankind anywhere in this world).

We read in Jeremiah 25:15-18, 27-29:

15) For thus saith the LORD God of Israel unto me; Take the wine cup of this fury at my hand, and cause all the nations, to whom I send thee, to drink it.\\
16) And they shall drink, and be moved, and be mad, because of the sword that I will send among them.\\
17) Then took I the cup at the LORD's hand, and made all the nations to drink, unto whom the LORD had sent me:\\
18) *To wit*, Jerusalem, and the cities of Judah, and the kings thereof, and the princes thereof, to make them a desolation, an astonishment, an hissing, and a curse; as *it is* this day;\\
27) Therefore thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Drink ye, and be drunken, and spue, and fall, and rise no more, because of the sword which I will send among you.\\
28) And it shall be, if they refuse to take the cup at thine hand to drink, then shalt thou say unto them, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Ye shall certainly drink.\\
29) For, lo, I begin to bring evil on the city which is called by my name, and should ye be utterly unpunished? Ye shall not be unpunished: for I will call for a sword upon all the inhabitants of the earth, saith the LORD of hosts.
{:.verse}

