---
title: Is Date Setting a Sin?
created_at: "2012-02-27 21:01"
kind: article
slug: is-date-setting-a-sin
speaker: Chris McCann
description: |
  In the book of Esther, God brings into focus a specific date and how the language in
  Esther ties in with the end of the world.
---
We read in Esther 3:13:

And the letters were sent by posts into all the king's provinces, to destroy, to kill, 
and to cause to perish, all Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one 
day, *even* upon the thirteenth *day* of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, 
and *to take* the spoil of them for a prey.
{:.verse}

We read in Esther 8:11-13:

11) Wherein the king granted the Jews which *were* in every city to gather themselves 
together, and to stand for their life, to destroy, to slay, and to cause to perish, all 
the power of the people and province that would assault them, *both* little ones and 
women, and *to take* the spoil of them for a prey,\\
12) Upon one day in all the provinces of king Ahasuerus, *namely*, upon the thirteenth 
*day* of the twelfth month, which *is* the month Adar.\\
13) The copy of the writing for a commandment to be given in every province *was* published 
unto all people, and that the Jews should be ready against that day to avenge themselves on 
their enemies.
{:.verse}

The book of Esther is a book that is dedicated to the setting of a date. From chapter 3, 
all the way through the end of the book in chapter 10, the focus is waveringly upon a date: 
the 13th day (#13 pointing to the end of the world) of the 12th month (#12 pointing to 
fullness of time). 

Who is it that wrote the book of Esther? The man God used to write is is unknown. But we 
do know that all Scripture is given by inspiration of God; and is profitable 
for doctrine, etc. God is the author of the book of Esther. God, therefore is the One that 
has given us a book of the Bible (Esther is just as much a part of the Bible as Genesis or 
Matthew), in which the main and unceasing focus is on a date. A date that has been selected 
by lot, "the lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing thereof *is* of the Lord," 
Proverbs 16:33). A date that has been set aside especially for destruction. And a date that 
turns out to be a date of deliverance for the Jews (God's people) and a date of destruction 
for ALL the enemies of the Jews (those opposed to God's people). This language, of course, 
matches up very well with Judgment Day and the end of the world. The end of the world is a 
time when God's people are delivered (although apart from the grace of God we surely should 
have died); and a time when all of the enemies of God and His kingdom (i.e. all of the 
unsaved of the world) do perish. 

Is date setting a sin? Then why has God given us a book like Esther that completely focuses 
upon a date?

