---
title: No Salvation? NO! Great Salvation!
created_at: "2012-02-29 14:26"
kind: article
slug: no-salvation-no-great-salvation
speaker: Chris McCann
description: |
  Puts into proper perspective God's salvation plan in light of spiritual judgment
  beginning on May 21, 2011 and how God has already saved a great multitude of people
  from all over the world.
---
The Bible has taught us that the Lord brought Judgment Day to pass on the day that He told 
the world He would, May 21, 2011. The Bible has revealed that on that day a spiritual 
judgment began. An horrible judgment in which God shut the door to heaven. A day in which 
God ceased to actively save people in this world any longer. Some, after hearing these 
things deride this information as a, "no salvation gospel." But is it? Let's consider the 
events that took place which brought about this enormous occurrence:

First, God sent forth the gospel in a tremendous way during a period of time the Bible 
identifies as "the latter rain". During this wonderful outpouring of God's Word upon the 
world, the Word of God declares that a great multitude that no man can number became saved. 
We read about this in Revelation 7:9:

After this I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations, 
and kindreds, and people, and tongues, stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, 
clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands;
{:.verse}

A little later in this chapter the question is asked in Revelation 7:13, 

And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these which are arrayed in white 
robes? and whence came they?
{:.verse}

Of course, God intentionally wanted this question to be asked in order to link this great 
multitude of people He intended to save with a particular point in time, and in His overall 
salvation plan. Below we see the response to the question in Revelation 7:14:

...These are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and 
made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
{:.verse}

The great multitude that became saved and suddenly appeared in heaven, came out of, "great 
tribulation." The same great tribulation that Jesus referred to when He was answering the 
disciples questions in Matthew 24 regarding, "what shall be the sign of Thy coming and the 
end of the world?" As part of a detailed response, we read in Matthew 24:21:

For then shall be great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this 
time, no, nor ever shall be.
{:.verse}

There is no question then, that the great multitude of saved people from every nation, tribe, 
and tongue, were saved during the time of great tribulation which would come right at the 
very end of the world. 

By God's provision, He has opened up to His people the biblical calendar of history. This 
calendar (based on the genealogies of Genesis) shows very precise time patterns between key 
events in biblical history. Once laid out the pattern revealed that God would begin the 
great tribulation simultaneously with bringing judgmetn upon the unfaithful churches and 
congregations of the world. This judgment began on May 21, 1988. The first 2300 evening 
mornings of this "great tribulation" were most grievous. Virtually no one was being saved 
anywhere in the world. But God had a plan to pour out His blessings upon the world during 
a period known as "the latter rain." Therefore God shortened the days (for the world only) 
of this most awful first part of the great tribulation. We also read about this in 
Matthew 24:22:

And except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved: but for the 
elect's sake those days shall be shortened.
{:.verse}

After 2300 days God began a program to save a vast multitude of people from all around the 
world. The door to heaven was flung wide open, and all those outside of the churches were 
encouraged to seek the Lord for His Salvation. Sadly, during this time of glorious salvation 
out in the world, still no one was being saved in any church. The judgment upon them would 
continue unabated throughout the entire 23 year period. But for the elect's sakes, those 
outside of the congregations in the various nations of the world, it was shortened after 
the first 2300 days. 

The Bible indicates that God saved more during the little season of the great tribulation 
than He had saved throughout all previous history. The Bible shows that the great multitude 
numbered in the tens of millions of people from many lands. God's people proclaimed this 
glorious news to the world in the days leading up to May 21. Now is the time to boldly 
approach the throne of grace, for now God is saving like He never has before. The 
proclamation of this great salvation disturbed some people. They didn't see any great 
multitude with their eyes. Therefore they did not believe it. They would rather the 
information of God saving a great multitude during the great tribulation be tampered 
down (isn't it amazing how when God instructs His doorkeepers to fling the door wide open, 
some do not like it; and once God instructs His doorkeepers to shut the door they also 
do not like this). 

Who is it that really has a, "gospel of no," or "little salvation?" Is it the people of 
God that believe the Lord has done a mighty work all around the globe? That He has set 
untold millions of captives free out of Satan's dungeon? Is it the people of God who 
believe the Bible when it says God has saved a great multitude which came speak every 
tongue? Is it a "no salvation" gospel that proclaims that the Lord Jesus Christ has 
triumphed and has completed His salvation plan. That He has saved everyone whose name 
was writen in the Lamb's book of life. That these people are presently alive upon the 
earth. And it may be anyone (outside of the churches) in all the world. We don't know 
who these people are. We have no idea who the elect multitude might be. What great hope 
for billions of people exists in this so called "no salvation" gospel. 

And yet, what are the critics of God's program proclaiming? Where is the salvation in 
their gospel? Many would not acknowledge that God saved a great multitude over the 23 
years of the great tribulation. Yes, they believe salvation is continuing today; but it 
is a pittance. One here, and one there they think. 

Is the Bible's teaching that God has saved ALL that He intended to save from before the 
foundation of the world a "no salvation gospel?" Or, is it the most glorious declaration 
of the gospel of salvation that mankind has ever had the priviledge to hear? 

We read in Ezekiel 37:7-10:

7) So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and behold 
a shaking, and the bones came together, bone to his bone.\\
8) And when I beheld, lo, the sinews and the flesh came up upon them, and the skin covered 
them above: but there was no breath in them.\\
9) Then said he unto me, Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, 
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, 
that they may live.\\
10) So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and 
stood up upon their feet, an exceeding great army.
{:.verse}

After 23 years the great tribulation ended on May 21, 2011. Therefore the great multitude 
which Revelation 7:9,14 assures us came out of great tribulation, has already been gathered.

